












Better together: Scientists discover far-reaching applications of nanoparticles made of multiple elements | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







 




















Better together: Scientists discover far-reaching applications of nanoparticles made of multiple elements

				January 4, 2021			

Schematic of the setup used to study the oxidation of high-entropy alloy nanoparticles (HEA NP). Inset shows HEA NP structure at room temperature (RT) and during the high-temperature oxidation. (Image: UIC)
Catalysts
are integral to countless aspects of modern society. By speeding up important
chemical reactions, catalysts support industrial manufacturing and reduce
harmful emissions. They also increase efficiency in chemical processes for applications
ranging from batteries and transportation to beer and laundry detergent. 
As significant as catalysts are, the way they work is often a mystery to scientists. Understanding catalytic processes can help scientists develop more efficient and cost-effective catalysts. In a recent study, scientists from University of Illinois Chicago and the U.S. Department of Energy’s Argonne National Laboratory discovered that, during a chemical reaction that often quickly degrades catalytic materials, a certain type of catalyst displays exceptionally high stability and durability.
The catalysts in this study are alloy nanoparticles, or nano-sized particles made up of multiple metallic elements, such as cobalt, nickel, copper and platinum. These nanoparticles could have multiple practical applications, including water-splitting to generate hydrogen in fuel cells; reduction of carbon dioxide by capturing and converting it into useful materials like methanol; more efficient reactions in biosensors to detect substances in the body; and solar cells that produce heat, electricity and fuel more effectively. 
In this study, the scientists investigated “high-entropy,” or highly stable, alloy nanoparticles. The team of researchers, led by Reza Shahbazian-Yassar at UIC, used Argonne’s Center for Nanoscale Materials, or CNM, a DOE Office of Science User Facility, to characterize the particles’ compositions during oxidation, a process that degrades the material and reduces its usefulness in catalytic reactions. 
Illustration of the movement of different molecules during the oxidation of high-entropy alloy nanoparticles. (Image: UIC)
“Using gas flow transmission electron microscopy, or TEM, at CNM, we can capture the whole oxidation process in real-time and at very high resolution,” said Bob Song, a research assistant at UIC and a lead scientist on the study. “We found that the high-entropy alloy nanoparticles are able to resist oxidation much better than general metal particles.”
To perform
the TEM, the scientists embedded the nanoparticles into a silicon nitride
membrane and flowed different types of gas through a channel over the
particles. A beam of electrons probed the reactions between the particles and
the gas, revealing the low rate of oxidation and the migration of certain
metals — iron, cobalt, nickel and copper — to the particles’ surfaces during
the process. 
Reza Shahbazian-Yassar (Photo: Jenny Fontaine)
“Our
objective was to understand how fast high-entropy materials react with oxygen
and how the chemistry of nanoparticles evolves during such a reaction,” said
Shahbazian-Yassar, UIC professor of mechanical and industrial engineering at
the College of Engineering. 
According to
Shahbazian-Yassar, the discoveries made in this research could benefit many
energy storage and conversion technologies, such as fuel cells, lithium-air
batteries, supercapacitors and catalyst materials. The nanoparticles could also
be used to develop corrosion-resistant and high-temperature materials.
“This was a
successful showcase of how CNM’s capabilities and services can meet the needs
of our collaborators,” said Argonne’s Yuzi Liu, a scientist at CNM. “We have
state-of-the-art facilities, and we want to deliver state-of-the-art science as
well.”
The
scientists published a paper on the study, titled “In Situ
Oxidation Studies of High-Entropy Alloy Nanoparticles,” in ACS
Nano. 
Co-authors
on the paper are Yong Yang of the University of Maryland; Muztob Rabbani,
Timothy Yang and Wissam Saidi of the University of Pittsburgh; Kun He, Xiaobing
Hu and Vinayak Dravid from Northwestern University; Yifei Yuan of UIC; and
Pankaj Ghildiyal and Michael Zachariah of the University of California. 
This
research was funded, in part, by the National Science Foundation and DOE’s
Office of Science. 



Contact

Jacqueline Carey
							312-996-8277
jmcarey@uic.edu
twitter.com/JCareyUIC




Categories

Research 
Topics
catalysts, College of Engineering, engineering, nanoparticles




 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













