 















                            Undergraduate Student Resources | College of Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































College of Engineering

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Admitted Students
                




                  Advising
                




                  Career Outcomes
                




                  Diversity
                




                  Engineering Expo
                




                  FAQ
                




                  Guaranteed Paid Intern Program
                




                  Majors and Minors
                




                  Scholarships
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Programs Index
                




                  International Programs
                









        Departments
      




        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Interdisciplinary Research
                




                  Labs and Centers
                









        Support UIC
      


Expand Support UIC menu











                  Donate Online
                




                  How to Give
                




                  Help Students
                




                  Empower Faculty
                




                  Capital Projects
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Dean
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Administration
                




                  Advisory Board
                




                  Alumni
                




                  Diversity
                




                  Facilities
                




                  Summer Camp
                




                  News
                




                  Contact
                








Eyebrow menu


Give


Careers


Alumni


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                College of Engineering
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

College of Engineering


Undergraduate


Undergraduate Student Resources






Undergraduate Student Resources
This page is meant to act as a "one-stop shop" for link to UIC and College of Engineering information and forms that undergraduate students need. Is there something you don't see below that you want to see added? Please let us know at uic-engr@uic.edu.






            Forms
          Heading link



 
Copy link






            Online forms
          

Online forms for current Engineering students

Approval to take course outside of UIC
Change of major form (Note: please refer to the Academic Major Report to find additional information regarding changing majors)
Credit hour overload petition
Credit / No Credit petition (Note: only available during the add/drop period of each term)
General student petition
GPA Recalculation Petition (Note:  only available for students who started at UIC prior to fall 2017.  Only available during the add/drop period of each term)
Graduation check form
Intent to graduate
Late drop petition (Note: deadline is the end of week 10 in fall and spring, Wednesday of the third week in summer session 1, and end of the fifth week of summer session 2)
Minor / concentration form (Note: this is to declare a minor/concentration in College of Engineering areas only.  To request a minor from another College, follow instructions on that College’s website.)
Transfer articulation petition
University withdrawal form





            Paper-based forms
          

Online forms for non-Engineering students

General student petition
Intercollege transfer petition

Minimum course requirements are to have a Math 180 (Calculus I) equivalent course completed.
Computer Science Department majors also require a CS 111 (CS I) equivalent course to be completed.
Please refer to the Academic Major Report to find additional information regarding changing majors


Minor request form

 
Paper-based forms

Modification of major form
Proposal for undergraduate research by engineering students










            Helpful Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link






            column 1
          


Academic calendar
Biweekly payroll calendar for student workers
Class schedule: access via my.uic.edu
Counseling Center
Disability Resource Center
Engineering Career Center
Engineering Learning Center. (UIC NetID login required). Located in SEL-NE2063.
Equity and Inclusion in Engineering Program (formerly MERRP)
Faculty office hours: see individual faculty profile pages
Guaranteed Paid Internship Program: Freshmen
Guaranteed Paid Internship Program: Transfers
Laboratory safety info





            column 2
          


MakerSpace
Math and Sciences Learning Center
mHUB access: see section below
my.uic.edu
Student timesheet report
Transferring between UIC colleges
Transferology (UIC course transfer guide)
Tutoring
Tutoring via the Honors College
UIC student affairs website
UIC student involvement website
Women in Engineering Programs website










            Important Information
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Student access to mHUB
                    








            info
          





Free student memberships to a major Chicago innovation center
mHUB is an innovation center focused on physical product development and manufacturing—and a fantastic resource available to UIC Engineering students at no cost.
The 63,000-square-foot center is home to 10 fabrication labs. What can you do there? Fabrication with electronics, plastic, metals, and textiles. You have access to rapid prototyping services, and there’s even a microfactory for small production runs.
mHUB is located at 965 W. Chicago Avenue in River West, about three blocks from the Chicago stop on the blue line and a 15-minute bike ride from campus.
Learn all about mHUB and its services here.
Activating your student membership

Complete the member onboarding form in order to register with mHUB’s internal system and schedule your new member orientation. Please upload a personal photo for your Key Card.
Please select a time to attend a Virtual Member Orientation
Review the Membership Agreement before orientation. You will be expected to sign these documents during orientation.
You will be expected to provide either credit card information or ACH bank information for payment once the orientation has finished. You will not be charged membership fees if applying with a university and using your university email address.
IMPORTANT: You will receive instructions for basic shop safety training. This training is done virtually and will need to be completed before you gain access to the shop.

Remember: To ensure that you receive the no-cost UIC student membership, you must use your UIC email address when you sign up, and you must bring your iCard when you attend the in-person orientation.
Questions?
Contact the UIC Innovation team at Innovation@uic.edu














Undergraduate


Back to main content









Admissions 

Admitted Students 

Advising 

Career Outcomes 

Diversity 

Engineering Expo 

FAQ 

Guaranteed Paid Intern Program 

Majors and Minors 

Scholarships 

Student Groups 

Student Resources 













 
































Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 College of Engineering
851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3463
uic-engr@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














