 












                            Intercollege Transfer | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Intercollege Transfer

Main Menu




        Home
      




        Advising
      




        Information on Majors
      



Eyebrow menu


Undergraduate Catalog


Advising Development


Admissions


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Intercollege Transfer
              


















Are you a current UIC student looking to change your major to a major that is in another college at UIC?
Current UIC students who wish to transfer colleges need to apply for an intercollege transfer. Each college has admissions requirements and you will need to ensure that you are aware of the specific application processes for your intended college.
Many of UIC’s colleges host info sessions for prospective intercollege transfer students and provide information online:
Please Note: Most university offices are closed for the winter break from December 24th through January 4th.






Unsure which college?
Search for your intended major here!







            Colleges
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            College of Applied Health Sciences
                    

                Eligibility varies by program. Visit Student Affairs online to connect to the departments.
            









                            College of Architecture, Design, and the Arts
                    

                Eligibility varies by department and school. An intercollegiate application is required.
            









                            College of Business Administration
                    

                Information sessions are offered throughout the semester for students interested in transferring into the college.
            









                            College of Education
                    

                Sign up for an info session to learn about the transfer process and requirements.
            









                            College of Engineering
                    

                Online transfer petition form.
            









                            College of Liberal Arts and Sciences
                    

                Regularly scheduled intercollege transfer information sessions are offered  throughout the fall and spring semesters.
            









                            College of Nursing
                    

                Prospective student information session schedule.
            









                            School of Public Health
                    

                There are info sessions for students to learn about the bachelor of arts in public health.
            









                            College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs
                    

                There are info sessions each semester for students to learn about the college. There's an online petition available.
            











            Application Deadlines
          Heading link



 
Copy link






    Your intended college may have an application deadline to be admitted for the next term.
  



            Applied Health Sciences
          

            Varies by intended major
          



            Architecture, Design, and the Arts
          

            Varies by intended major
          



            Business Administration
          

            No deadlines; however admissions are granted on a rolling basis, 
          



            Education
          

            December 15 for admission for spring semester; May 1 for admission for fall semester;
          



            Engineering
          

            Friday of the first week of fall term and spring term; applications submitted after the Friday of Week 1 will be considered for the subsequent term.
          



            Liberal Arts and Sciences
          

            Deadline for admission for Summer 2019 is Friday, May 10th; applications between May 12th and August 9th will be reviewed for Fall 2019 admission.

          



            Nursing
          

            Fall entry only; applications accepted until January 15th, no exceptions are made.
          



            Public Health
          

            May 15, 2018 for Fall 2018;  November 1 for Spring 2019
          



            Urban Planning and Public Affairs
          

            Applications accepted after participation in an info session;
          


















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 oad@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












