 












                            Computer Science + Design Major | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Computer Science


Undergraduate


Computer Science + Design Major






Computer Science + Design Major






            Introduction
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Technology and creativity represent one of the most powerful combinations in the current job market.
UIC is the only public university in the United States that offers a computer science + design undergraduate degree created specifically to prepare students for these opportunities.
This program offers professional training in both fields, integrating design courses — fundamental through advanced — with a strong foundation in computer programming. Students who complete this degree will join a new generation of technically savvy designers and creative scientists who operate in the wildly exciting space between these two worlds.
If the following sound interesting, you could be an ideal candidate for UIC’s computer science + design program:

Augmented and virtual reality design
Computer graphics
Creative coding
Data visualization
Designing and developing digital interfaces and applications
Human-centered computing
Media design
Mobile platforms and apps
Virtual health and medicine
3D fabrication
3D typography












            Get to know the CS + Design major
          Heading link



 
Copy link



In just one page, get a sense of what CS majors study at UIC and go on to do after graduation.


      Download the PDF
    








            Curriculum
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The core design curriculum is comprised of four studio courses that provide students with an effective range of technical and critical skills and the opportunity to apply them through a year-long collaborative professional practice course.
The core computer science curriculum consists of required technical courses followed by a range of computer science selective courses offering specializations in systems, software, languages, algorithms, and computer design.
In all courses within the major, students have the chance to work in teams and to practice being a bridge between the technological and the creative.
Click each of the tabs below to learn about the 122 credits required for this major.







                                General education courses
                          


                                Computer science core courses
                          


                                Design core courses
                          








            Required general education and non-core courses: 46 credits
          

Required general education and non-core courses: 46 credits

ENG 160 Academic Writing I: Writing in Academic and Public Contexts (3 credits)
ENG 161 Academic Writing II: Writing for Inquiry and Research (3 credits)
AH 110 Art History I (4 credits) fulfills Understanding the Creative Arts requirement
DES 236 History of Design II (3 credits) fulfills Humanities, Social Sciences and Arts requirement
DES 355 Design Seminar (3 credits) fulfills Humanities, Social Sciences and Arts requirement
One course in Exploring World Cultures (3 credits)
One course in Understanding the Individual in Society (3 credits)
One course in Understanding the Past (3 credits)
One course in Understanding U.S. Society (3 credits)
MATH 180 Calculus I (4 credits) fulfills Math and Science requirement
MATH 181 Calculus II (4 credits) fulfills Math, Statistics, and Industrial Engineering requirement
IE 342 Probability and Statistics (3 credits)
Science elective (4 credits)
MATH / SE science elective (3 credits)











            Computer science core requirements (36 credits)
          

Computer science core requirements (36 credits)

CS 111 Program Design I (3 credits)
CS 141 Program Design II (3 credits)
CS 151 Math Foundations of CS (3 credits)
ENGR 100 Engineering Orientation (0 credits)
CS 211 Programming Practicum (2 credits)
CS 251 Data Structures (4 credits)
CS 261 Machine Organization (3 credits)
CS 427 / DES 427 Creative Coding (3 credits)

Plus two of these courses:

CS 301 Languages and Automata (3 credits)
CS 341 Programming Language Design (3 credits)
CS 342 Software Design (3 credits)
CS 361 Systems Programming (3 credits)
CS 362 Computer Design (3 credits)
CS 401 Algorithms (3 credits)

Plus computer science technical electives totaling 6 credits










            Design core requirements (40 credits)
          

Design core requirements (40 credits)

DES 150 Digital Media Design I (4 credits)
DES 160 Design Photography (4 credits) or DES 170 Color Theory (4 credits)
DES 208 Type I: Form (4 credits)
DES 209 Type II: Systems (4 credits)
DES 255 Integrative Design Studio I (4 credits)
DES 256 Integrative Design Studio II (4 credits)
DES 357 Integrative Design Studio III (4 credits)
DES 358 Integrative Design Project (4 credits)

Students then choose one year-long professional practice track option:

DES 420 Professional Practice Project I (4 credits) and DES 421 Professional Practice Project II (4 credits)
DES 430 Interdisciplinary Product Development I (4 credits) and DES 431 Interdisciplinary Product Development II (4 credits)
DES 452 Information Aesthetics I (4 credits) and DES 453 Information Aesthetics II (4 credits)














            Student learning objectives: CS + design major
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Successful graduates of UIC’s computer science + design program emerge with the balanced set of skills they need to move on to industry jobs or graduate study. They will have the computer science and design skills to serve as master collaborators in workplace teams that include colleagues from both fields.
Upon completing the BS in Computer Science + Design, graduates will be able to:

Demonstrate an understanding of the possibilities and contexts of design practice.
Relate specific trends in contemporary design to historical development of the field.
Formulate concepts in response to design criteria.
Identify, formulate, and solve complex design and computational problems.
Conduct visual and textual research.
Demonstrate how human factors impact design.
Demonstrate an understanding of informational and visual hierarchy.
Transform data into meaningful insights for design and computer science applications.
Visualize design concepts in 2D, 3D, Interactive and data-driven models.
Utilize both digital and physical prototyping tools for creative, computational and analytic discovery.
Analyze a problem and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution.
Apply design and development principles, mathematical foundations, algorithmic principles, and computer science theory in the design, modeling, and construction of software and computer-based systems of moderate complexity.
Engage in continuing professional development.
Articulate and document design and development process.
Participate in and respond to critical analysis of research findings and creative work.
Design and conduct experiments, analyze and interpret data.
Design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability.
Understand professional and ethical responsibility.
Communicate and function effectively in interdisciplinary collaborations and teams.
Understand the impact of design and engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context.
Use the techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice.
Apply advanced mathematics (including differential equations and statistics), science, and engineering to solve problems at the interface of computer science and design.







            Take the next step!
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Edit icon







Apply now






Computer icon







College of Engineering info






Blackboard icon






School of Design info











Undergraduate


Back to main content









Admissions 

Accreditation 

Advising 

Courses 

Majors 


Computer Science Major 

Computer Science + Design Major 

Data Science Major 



Minor 

Internships and Jobs 

Student Groups 

Student Resources 

Women in CS 













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












