 















                            Working Groups | Institute for the Humanities | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Institute for the Humanities

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Contact Us
                




                  Newsletters/Brochures
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Calendar
                




                  Working Groups
                




                  Fellows Lectures
                




                  Conferences
                




                  Co-Sponsored Events
                









        People
      


Expand People menu











                  Institute Fellows
                




                  Staff
                




                  Executive Committee
                




                  Resident Graduate Scholars
                




                  Research Associates in Digital Humanities
                









        Research Support
      


Expand Research Support menu











                  Current Competitions
                




                  Co-Sponsorship Request Form
                




                  Institute for the Humanities Event Information Form
                




                  Fellows' Publications
                




                  Graduate Scholar Publications/Honors
                




                  Support Opportunities for Humanities Scholars
                









        Connections
      


Expand Connections menu











                  Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes
                




                  Humanities Without Walls
                




                  Chicago Humanities Festival Partnership
                




                  Engaged Humanities Initiative
                









        Archive
      


Expand Archive menu











                  Working Groups Archive
                




                  Special Events Archive
                




                  Fellows Lectures Archive
                




                  Conferences Archive
                




                  Visiting Fellow Archive
                




                  Co-Sponsored Events Archive
                




                  Media Archive
                




                  The Stanley Fish Lecture (2005-2011)
                








Eyebrow menu


las.uic.edu


+Give


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Institute for the Humanities
              
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Institute for the Humanities


Events


Working Groups






Working Groups






            Our Working Groups
          Heading link



 
Copy link



            The UIC Institute for the Humanities encourages interdisciplinary research and intellectual exchange by sponsoring a variety of faculty working groups each year. The format for working groups is flexible and is determined by the faculty coordinators who must represent at least two departments. The Institute supports working groups by circulating materials, funding outside speakers, publicizing events, and providing modest refreshments for meeting and lectures.
          



Anthropocene Lab

Anthropocene Lab offers a cross-disciplinary platform for faculty and students interested in social movements, biodiversity, ecological activism, human rights, cultural heritage, environmental justice, and public humanities. It responds to a desire for engagement and collaboration with local communities in the global contexts of development.



Dance, Theater, and Performance Studies

Dance, Theater, and Performance Studies will offer events that apply a theoretical and critical lens both to the art of theatre-making and to the performative practices of everyday life.



Dissertation Writing

The Interdisciplinary Dissertation Writing Seminar is open to ALL students and faculty, and we are eager to hear from all graduate students in the humanities who are at a point in their writing when a congenial audience of fellow scholars would be helpful in the writing process.



Engaged Humanities

Engaged Humanities is connected with the Mellon-Funded Engaged Humanities Initiative. At regularly scheduled meetings, all interested faculty and students discuss readings, propose speakers, and address future goals for the initiative.



Global Migration

A follow-up to the Immigration Working Group, The Global Migration Working Group will debate and explore from within an interdisciplinary lens important aspects of migration affecting the life and well-being of migrants, refugees and stateless persons in the United States and, more broadly, the overall dynamics of migration in the Western Hemisphere.



Queer and Trans Studies

Queer and Trans Studies engages transnational and diasporic analyses of gender, sexuality, queer of color critique, trans studies, queer liberation activism and abolition, race, disability, and their multiple intersections.



Race & U.S. Empire

Race & U.S. Empire focuses on the ways that racism and capitalism inform the logics and practices of the contemporary U.S. empire both within the U.S. and across the globe. Much of our scholarship revolves around two themes: the expansion of the security state and struggles against imperial racism.



Religion in the World

Religion in the World aims to foster an interdisciplinary scholarly community dedicated to analyzing cutting edge developments in religious studies through common readings and speaker visits.



See Next

SEE NEXT – Seminar: East European and Northern Eurasian Crosstalk. This group brings together scholarswho study history and culture of Eastern Europe and Northern Eurasia.  Invited speakers will frame particular cases within wider methodological, disciplinary, and geographical contexts relevant for a broad community of students of diversity, complex societies, imperial formations and postcoloniality.



South Asian Studies

South Asian Studies aims to provide a space for interdisciplinary discussions on the emerging literature of South Asia.











Events


Back to main content









Calendar 

Working Groups 

Fellows Lectures 

Conferences 


Different Archives, Different Histories 


Schedule 

Virtual Format 

Registration 





Co-Sponsored Events 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 Institute for the Humanities
Behavioral Sciences Building, 1007 W Harrison Street, Suite 153, MC 206, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-6352
Fax: (312) 996-2938
huminst@uic.edu

 




Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












