 












                            CTA U-PASS | ID Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































ID Center

Main Menu




        Identification Cards
      


Expand Identification Cards menu











                  Get an i-card
                




                  Lost Card or Stolen Card
                




                  Fees
                




                  UINs
                




                  Visitor Cards
                




                  Name Badges
                









        Dragon Dollar$ and Flames Fare
      


Expand Dragon Dollar$ and Flames Fare menu











                  Using Dragon Dollar$ and Flames Fare
                




                  Purchase Locations & Fees
                




                  Terms & Conditions
                




                  Meal Plans
                




                  Add Dragon Dollar$ and Flames Fare Online
                









        CTA U-PASS
      


Expand CTA U-PASS menu











                  U-PASS Alternate Pickup
                




                  Troubleshoot U-Pass
                




                  About U-PASS
                




                  Eligibility
                




                  History
                




                  U-PASS @ CTA Website
                




                  U-Pass FAQ’s
                




                  UIC Law U-PASS Info
                









        FAQ
      


Expand FAQ menu











                  Identification Cards FAQ
                




                  Dragon Dollar$ & Meal Plans FAQ’s
                




                  U-Pass FAQ’s
                








Eyebrow menu


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                ID Center
              









CTA U-PASS





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Fall 2022 U-Pass Important Dates & Waiting Periods
Fall 2022
IMPORTANT!
UIC and CTA entered into an experimental pilot program to include some part-time students (6 credit hours or more) during Fall and spring Semesters starting Fall 2020 and this continues for Fall 2022.  The Fall CTA U-PASS will be available to any student with 6 or more credit hours.  CTA also continues to offer flexibility by allowing UIC to administer the U-PASS program as optional.  All students are required to opt-in, confirming that they want a CTA U-Pass.  You may opt-in to tthe program and the associated CTA Transportation Fee at https://go.uic.edu/fall_upass.

The deadline to opt-in for the Spring 2022 U-PASS is September 11, 2022 at 11:59 p.m. CDT.
After September 11, 2022 the opt-status cannot change for the duration of the semester.
Students who drop below part-time status (6 credit hours) prior to the add/drop deadline will have their U-PASS deactivated.
All students are opted-out by default unless otherwise specified by the student at the website above.
Students that opt-in and meet the credit hour requirement will have a non-refundable CTA U-PASS fee assessed on their university bill.  The charge may not appear on your statement until mid-September.

August 17, 2022
Continuing student U-Passes activated.  U-Pass distribution will occur at The Alley Bowling and Billiards Center in SCE*. Please bring your valid UIC iCard in order to pick-up the U-Pass.  After August 24, new student U-Passes available for pickup at ID Center in Student Center East (SCE).
*UIC Law and College of Medicine may have alternate pick up locations.  Students in those colleges should check with their college for details.  
December 14, 2022
Final day of activation for semester. This is the final day U-Passes can be used without adding separate funds for use on CTA busses and trains.
*Students in the College of Dentistry, College of Medicine, and the Corporate MBA program may have start and end dates that differ from those listed above.
Becoming Eligible after August 1, 2022
Returning students with a non-expired Ventra U-Pass who register after the above date or make changes their Opt-status on our web application will see an activation delay of up to 4 business days. This delay may be extended by university or CTA closures, specifically prior to the Spring semester.
New students (including transfer students) who register after the above date will see a 6-8 business day delay in production and delivery of their U-Pass to the ID Center.
 
Summer 2022
The Summer CTA U-Pass program will be considerably different than in the Fall and Spring semester.  
Eligibility

CTA has extended the flexible enrollment option for Summer 22.
For Summer 2022, the CTA U-Pass will be available for any full-time summer session student that elects to OPT-IN prior to a June 19th deadline. Unfortunately, no exceptions can be made to missing this deadline.
All students are OPT-OUT by default (including staff taking a summer course load)
Full-time is defined as 5 credit hours for graduate students in the Graduate College and School of Public Health or 6 credit hours students in the College of Pharmacy‚ College of Dentistry‚ Doctorate of Physical Therapy‚ & College of Medicine.
Student that wish to participate in the U-PASS program must OPT-IN
Summer U-Pass will be active from May 11, 2022 through August 10, 2022
The deadline to OPT-IN for Summer 2021 UPASS is June 19th at Midnight (central)
After June 19th, the OPT-status cannot change for the duration of the summer session
This benefit is only available to full-time (6+ credit hours for Undergraduate/Professional, 5+ credit hours Graduate) summer session students.
Students who drop below full-time status prior to the add/drop deadline will have their U-Pass deactivated.
Students who OPT-IN but are not registered as full-time students will not be eligible and will not be assessed the fee.

For students with existing U-Pass cards, the standard policies on lost/replacement cards will still be enforced.
Summer 2022 U-Pass OPT-IN Application: https://go.uic.edu/summer_upass











            Determining if your U-Pass is Active
          Heading link



 
Copy link



To determine if your U-Pass is active, visit ventrachicago.com. After logging in with your card’s serial number and expiration date, you can check that 1) your card has a balance of $0.00 or greater and 2) under the ‘Passes’ section, the U-Pass is listed.


      Check Account Balance
    







            Troubleshooting Issues with your U-Pass
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Troubleshoot U-PASS Issues
                    









                            U-PASS FAQs
                    









                            U-PASS @ CTA Website
                    












CTA U-PASS


Back to main content









U-PASS Alternate Pickup 

Troubleshoot U-Pass 

About U-PASS 

Eligibility 

History 

U-PASS @ CTA Website 

U-Pass FAQ’s 

UIC Law U-PASS Info 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 idcenter@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












