 












                            Women in Computer Science | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Computer Science


Undergraduate


Women in Computer Science






Women in Computer Science






            UIC is dedicated to preparing women to thrive in tech careers.
          Heading link



 
Copy link



To accelerate the representation of women in tech, our computer science department has received a grant—one of the largest in College of Engineering history—to put UIC on the forefront of the national effort to close the gender gap. The resulting program is called Break Through Tech Chicago.
UIC also is committed to providing a support network to benefit female computer science students as they progress through their undergraduate years. The centerpiece of that network is our Women in Computer Science (WiCS) organization, which has nearly 200 student, alumni, and faculty members.
This page will get you acquainted with our programs for women in CS at UIC.






            Break Through Tech Chicago
          Heading link



 
Copy link






We believe that a crucial strategy for closing the gender gap is to encourage more women to choose computer science majors and to provide them with an excellent education.
Break Through Tech Chicago creates new pathways into the tech field for undergraduate women, even those who have never considered studying computer science. It allows students to learn about the broad range of technology careers that are out there—yes, coding, but also user-experience design, web development, cybersecurity, and data analytics—and get started on the courses that will prepare them for those careers.
Our Break Through Tech Chicago team wants to hear from students at UIC, community colleges, and high schools who are interested in participating in these programs. We also want to hear from Chicago-area employers who can host students for one of the immersive internships that are a defining feature of Break Through Tech. Follow the links below to get in touch.






            Get involved with Break Through Tech Chicago
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Graduate icon








Opportunities for students






People Icon


 
Opportunities for employers









            testimonial
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Break Through Tech is thrilled to partner with the computer science department at UIC and build upon their successes of the last several years. Our experience in New York has shown us that a deep partnership with a public university that has both scale and diversity, the delivery of a continuity of programming that supports women and other underrepresented groups throughout their college journey and innovative partnerships with the industry players within the city is a formula that delivers transformation results for both the students and the tech ecosystem.



  Judith Spitz, PhD
  
               | 
              
  Executive Director, Break Through Tech
  














            Women in Computer Science at UIC
          Heading link



 
Copy link



WiCS’ primary goal is to support and promote women in computer science, providing a social, technical, and networking community at UIC. Members work to draw attention to the valuable contributions of women in computing, provide advice to the computer science department on how to improve the learning and working environment for women, and help to attract the next generation of female students by designing events and activities for girls in grades kindergarten through 12.


      Learn about WiCS at UIC
    










Undergraduate


Back to main content









Admissions 

Accreditation 

Advising 

Courses 

Majors 


Computer Science Major 

Computer Science + Design Major 

Data Science Major 



Minor 

Internships and Jobs 

Student Groups 

Student Resources 

Women in CS 













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












