 












                            Career Programs and Events | Career Services | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Career Services

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Contact Us
                




                  Our Services
                




                  Staff Directory
                




                  Other Career Centers
                




                  Frequently Asked Questions
                









        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Join Handshake
                




                  Flames Internship Grant
                




                  Career/Major Exploration
                




                  Resumes, CVs, and Cover Letters
                




                  Interview Prep
                




                  Job Search Resources
                




                  Internships
                




                  Networking
                




                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Recorded Events and Webinars
                




                  Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Career Resources
                




                  CLASS OF 2022 CAREER READINESS RESOURCES
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Post A Position
                




                  Handshake
                




                  Career Fairs
                




                  Interviews
                




                  Information Sessions
                




                  Additional Outreach & Student Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Directions / Hotels
                









        Campus Partners
      


Expand Campus Partners menu











                  Career Services Workshop/Presentation Request Form
                









        Alumni
      



Eyebrow menu


Handshake


Student Employment


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Career Services
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Career Services


Students


Career Programs and Events






Career Programs and Events
#UICCareerSvcs
Follow Career Services events on UICLife and UIC Connection, use the Career Services hashtag: #UICCareerSvcs





Find Upcoming Events






            Page Content - Career Events
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            What type of career events does UIC Career Services host?
                    








            Types of events
          

UIC Career Services conducts a variety of programs and events  to empower career development:

Host advising sessions via pop-up events and at the UIC Career Services office to help students with quick questions on their resumes/CVs, cover letters, or other related career questions.
Host and lead workshops addressing a range of topics including career exploration, resume/CV writing, salary negotiation, and networking.
Sponsor Career, job, and internship fairs for current students and alumni throughout the academic year.  These fairs provide an opportunity for UIC students and alumni to network with perspective employers and/or recruiters, learn about job opportunities, and in some instances, submit their resumes.
UIC Careers Services and the Student Employment Office (SEO) work with recruiting employers to set up information sessions, information booths, and sponsor networking events.








                            What typically happens at a career/job fair?
                    








            Career Fair explanation
          

Fairs provide opportunities for students/alumni to learn about potential careers in industry sectors, network with perspective employers, and often submit resumes to prospective employers for full- and part-time jobs and/or internships.  (Note:  Some employers may require online submission of resumes and/or employment applications).
Hear and see what happens at UIC career/job fairs:








                            What are the career/job fairs held at UIC?
                    








            Career Fair descriptions
          

Career Fairs provide opportunities for students/alumni to learn about potential careers in industry sectors, network with perspective employers, and often submit resumes to prospective employers
Visit the link below to learn more about the fairs that UIC hosts and participates in throughout the academic year.



      UIC Career/Job Fair Descriptions
    









                            Who can attend UIC career/job fairs?
                    








            Career Fair Attendees
          

Unless otherwise noted, only UIC students and alumni are eligible to attend the fairs*.
*Proof of UIC affiliation is required; some examples include i-card, alumni association card, miniature diploma, or unofficial transcript showing current classes or degree conferred.







                            What advice and tips are available for attending a career/job fair?
                    








            Career fair tips
          



Review our tips and eLearning on how to connect successfully with employers at Career Fairs including tips on what to do before, during, and after attending a fair; what to wear at a fair; and researching employers.








 




      Career Fair Tips
    









                            What career workshops are offered?
                    








            What are the workshops offered by Career Services?
          

Career Services’ career workshops provide educational opportunities for students to learn about key career readiness skills and topics.  Workshops are delivered by Career Services staff members.  Workshops span a gamut of topics including resume tips, navigating a career fair, and exploring majors to name a few.
 



      Career Services Workshop Descriptions
    



      Upcoming Career Services Workshops
    









                            How do I request a Career Workshop or  Class Visit?
                    








            workshop request
          

UIC staff, faculty, and student organizations:  Request a career presentation or class visit by launching the form linked below.  Workshops are scheduled on a first come, first serve basis.  Please allow two weeks advance notice when selecting your program date.
Non-UIC requesters:  Please do not complete the form.  Please contact Career Services at (312) 996-2300.



      Workshop Request Form
    
















Students


Back to main content









Join Handshake 

Flames Internship Grant 

Career/Major Exploration 


Resources by Major 



Resumes, CVs, and Cover Letters 

Interview Prep 

Job Search Resources 

Internships 

Networking 

Upcoming Events 

Recorded Events and Webinars 

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Career Resources 

CLASS OF 2022 CAREER READINESS RESOURCES 













 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Most Popular


Join Handshake


Hours & Location


Upcoming Career Events


Flames Internship Grant


Our Services








Footer Menu


Upcoming Career Events


Handshake


UIC Student Employment Office






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Suite 3050 1200 West Harrison Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-2300
Fax: (312) 413-0383
careerservices@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












