 












                            Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    

























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              



































                    Featured Therapy Group: Latine Student Group
                  
















                    In Support of Our Iranian Community
                  
















                    Featured Therapy Group: LGBTQ Group
                  
















                    Finish the semester strong with new perspectives on procrastination and perfectionism!
                  
















                    Featured Therapy Group: Trans, Non-Binary, and Gender Expansive Group
                  
















                    Register for an upcoming Mind/Body workshop!
                  
















                    Want to connect with other UIC Students? Learn more about United Support Network!
                  
















                    Nod - an app to build social connections
                  
















                    All Upcoming Programs
                  

















                  Pause or play the slideshow
                





                  Show the next item
                














                  Show the next item
                















                    Show slide number 1
                  





                    Show slide number 2
                  





                    Show slide number 3
                  





                    Show slide number 4
                  





                    Show slide number 5
                  





                    Show slide number 6
                  





                    Show slide number 7
                  





                    Show slide number 8
                  





                    Show slide number 9
                  
























            The UIC Counseling Center provides mental health services to UIC students. We provide a wide range of clinical services, outreach and educational programming, consultation, and professional training. Our staff is committed to social justice and proud to provide culturally-affirming mental health services to UIC’s diverse student body.
          Heading link



 
Copy link

















            COVID-19 Service Updates
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The Counseling Center will continue to offer its services virtually during Fall 2022 due to COVID-19 concerns for health and safety. Though all appointments continue to be virtual, a limited number of staff will be present in the office from 8:30am-5pm Monday-Friday. Masks are required when entering the office.
Many of our usual procedures have changed since transitioning to online services due to COVID-19. We are frequently reassessing our procedures to ensure our services are as safe and accessible as possible. Check back often for the latest updates.


      See the latest COVID-19 updates
    














            Popular Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link



            The Counseling Center offers a variety of mental health services for UIC students. How can we help?
          






            Online Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Resource Library
                    

                Take charge of your mental health with coping skills, meditation videos, and more.
            












                            Nod App
                    

                A mobile app to build social connections. Designed for college students. Backed by science.
            












                            Self-Care Tips
                    

                Use a variety of self-care tips to both prevent and cope with mental health concerns.
            









            Sign Up Online
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Virtual Drop-In Spaces
                    

                Register online to get support and learn skills on an as-needed basis.
            












                            Mind-Body Programs
                    

                Register online for a deeper dive into specific coping skills like mindfulness, emotion-regulation, and self-compassion.
            












                            Peer Support Groups
                    

                Build community and improve your mental health with the United Support Network.
            












                            Single Session Appointments
                    

                Schedule your brief mental health checkup online.
            









            Schedule an Initial Consultation to Talk About...
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Group, Individual, and Relationship Therapy
                    

                Work toward your mental health goals in a dedicated therapy space.
            












                            Psychiatry Services
                    

                Consult with a psychiatrist to see if medication is right for you.
            












                            Case Management
                    

                If you are seeking longer-term or more specialized care, our case management team can help you find the right resources.
            















            Need to schedule an initial consultation?
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Call us between 8:30-5pm at 312-996-3490!


      Learn more about what you can expect from an initial consultation
    















            Messages and Upcoming Events
          Heading link



 
Copy link







Coping with Violence on College Campuses


Posted on November 18, 2022






In Support of Our Iranian Community


Posted on October 17, 2022






In the Aftermath of Gun Violence


Posted on July 07, 2022






In Response to Dobbs vs. Jackson Women's Health Organization


Posted on June 30, 2022






Coping with Grief, Tragedy, and Loss


Posted on May 19, 2022






Response to the Invasion of Ukraine


Posted on February 24, 2022






Black History Month


Posted on February 11, 2022






  More statements from the Counseling Center







Nov
23
2022









General Drop-In Space




                          11/23/22, 12:00 pm–12/14/22, 12:50 pm
             

          Virtual Via Zoom
        






Nov
29
2022









Neurodivergent Drop-In Space




                          11/29/22, 2:00 pm–12/20/22, 2:50 pm
             

          Virtual via Zoom
        





  More upcoming events from the Counseling Center




















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













