 












                            Medical Immunization Records | Office of the Registrar | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of the Registrar

Main Menu




        Current Students
      


Expand Current Students menu











                  Registration Services
                




                  Calendars
                




                  Financial Matters
                




                  Student Records
                




                  Transcripts
                









        Former Students
      


Expand Former Students menu











                  Calendars
                




                  Student Records
                




                  Transcripts
                




                  Campus Policies and Student Notifications
                









        Faculty & Staff
      


Expand Faculty & Staff menu











                  Course Management and Academic Space Scheduling
                




                  Faculty Self-Service
                




                  Calendars
                




                  Classes
                




                  Grades
                




                  Registration
                




                  Student Records Policy
                








Eyebrow menu


Prospective Students


AES Staff


Textbook Adoption


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of the Registrar
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Office of the Registrar


Student Records


Medical Immunization Records






Medical Immunization Records






            Medical Immunization Records
          Heading link



 
Copy link



University of Illinois Chicago is partnering with Med+Proctor to submit your immunization record.
The Illinois Department of Public Health requires that all incoming students starting spring 2022 and later, born on or after January 1, 1957 who are enrolled for 6 or more credit hours present documented proof of immunity (pdf) against the following diseases:

Measles (Rubeola) – two (2) doses at least 28 days apart
Rubella (German Measles) – two (2) doses at least 28 days apart
Mumps – two (2) doses at least 28 days apart
TD (Tetanus and Diphtheria) – at least  one (1) dose within past 10 years
Meningitis – Required for students under the age of 22 – Must be given on or after 16th birthday
COVID Vaccine (see below for additional details)

Note: Students may also be required to provide immunization information separately as specified by their college/program. These documents must be submitted directly to the student’s college and not through Med+Proctor. However, all students must still provide proof of the above immunization requirements no matter what college/program they are in through Med+Proctor.
COVID-19 VACCINATION
All students are required to submit proof of their COVID-19 vaccination.

For more information, please read the UIC Frequently Asked Questions as well as UIC COVID Page.
Submit proof of your COVID-19 vaccination to Med+Proctor.
If you have lost your vaccination card or don’t have a copy, contact your vaccination provider directly to access your vaccination record.

Note: If you cannot contact your vaccination provider directly, contact your state health department’s immunization information system (IIS). You can find state IIS information on the CDC website. Vaccination providers are required to report COVID-19 vaccinations to their IIS and related systems.

If you need help locating a vaccine provider near you, please visit Vaccination Locations (Illinois.gov).

How to comply

Visit the Med+Proctor website directly or via my.UIC.edu.
Click “Register” and use your UIC email address to create either a standard Med+Proctor account or a Med+Proctor Pro account.

With a standard Med+Proctor account (free), you do not retain access to your uploaded immunization documentation.
With a Med+Proctor Pro account ($10), you receive lifetime access to your uploaded immunization documentation.


Complete required personal information, download the immunization certificate, and follow the directions provided.
Upload a copy of your immunization forms to your Med+Proctor account. Make sure your forms are complete and legible. If you are uploading your own copy of your immunizations instead of the forms provided by Med+Proctor, please be sure it has your medical provider’s office stamp and signature, along with your UIN. Once the immunization forms are received, you will receive an email confirmation.
If more detailed instructions are required, consult the step-by-step guide, Med+Proctor’s Getting Started document, FAQ page or UIC Flyer.

All immunization documentation must be in English. Med+Proctor is unable to translate documents. If your documents require translation, please use a professional translation service.
What are the next steps?
For those who are able to provide immunization records satisfying all requirements, your status will automatically be updated to compliant. No further action is required. You are now considered compliant.
Students who provide records that do not meet the immunization requirements will be prompted to make any corrections. Until all appropriate records have been provided, a student is considered not compliant.
Failure to Comply
Failure to comply with this requirement will cause students to be prohibited from registering for future terms. Once a student has completed their immunization compliance on Med+Proctor, the hold on their record should be released if you have one.
What does my General Compliance status mean:

Compliant: Your record is compliant for all required shots
Non-Compliant: Your record is non-compliant for all or some of the required immunizations and must submit proof of immunization for the required shot(s) which are shown as non-compliant.
Temporarily Compliant: You are in the process of completing the series of required shots (MMR) but must wait the required timeframe before receiving the next required shot.

Seeking a copy of your immunization record:

All new students spring 2022 and later may visit Med+Proctor to obtain a copy of your submitted immunization record.
Students admitted summer 2021 and prior who seek a record of previously submitted vaccinations should use the Authorization for Disclosure of Immunization Record Information form. To contact the Office of Medical Immunizations, we can be reached by email at mi@uic.edu.

Med Proctor is available 8 a.m. through 5 p.m. central time for assistance and offers a live chat feature at support.medproctor.com. You may also email them at help@medproctor.com.
Got questions? See the Medical Immunization Records FAQ





            Quick Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Registration Services
CalendarsFinancial Matters


Student RecordsTranscriptsCampus Policies


Registration FAQ











Student Records


Back to main content





















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































UIC Office of the Registrar


Current & Former Students


UIC Faculty & Staff








Contact Us


Contact Us!


Sitemap






Social Media Accounts








Contact
 Office of the Registrar, MC 018
Suite 1200, Student Services Building1200 West Harrison Street, Chicago, IL 60607-7161https://registrar.uic.edu/contact/
Phone: (312) 996-8600
registration@uic.edu

 Records
Phone: (312) 996-4381









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












