 















                            UIC Alumni Board | Advancement | University of Illinois Chicago
                    































































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Advancement

Main Menu




        UIC Alumni Association
      


Expand UIC Alumni Association menu











                  Alumni Career Services
                




                  Alumni Exchange
                




                  Awards and Recognition
                




                  Benefits and Services
                




                  Class Notes
                




                  Get Involved
                




                  UIC Alumni Board
                




                  UICAA Year in Review
                









        Give to UIC
      


Expand Give to UIC menu











                  Give Now
                




                  Priorities
                




                  Ways to Give
                




                  Types of Giving
                




                  UIC Corporate and Foundation Relations
                




                  Understanding Giving
                









        Stories
      


Expand Stories menu











                  Leadership
                




                  Traditions
                




                  People
                




                  UIC Proud
                




                  Community
                




                  Impact
                









        About Advancement
      


Expand About Advancement menu











                  Directory
                




                  Connect to College
                




                  Advancement Careers
                








Eyebrow menu


Give Now


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Advancement
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Advancement


UIC Alumni Association


UIC Alumni Board






UIC Alumni Board






            UIC Alumni Board
          Heading link



 
Copy link






The University of Illinois Chicago Alumni Board provides alumni volunteer leadership by advising and supporting meaningful alumni engagement that connects UIC alumni to one another and the university. The UIC Alumni Board is charged with advancing alumni relationships with the university to support student success, encourage connections among alumni and promote advocacy that drives forward the mission of UIC. The Alumni Board comprises approximately 50 volunteers who dedicate their time and energy through their work on the board and standing committees of the board. We are grateful to all our Alumni Board leaders for their service to UIC.






            UIC Alumni Board Committees
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Leadership Committee
                    








            Leadership Committee
          




Leadership Committee 
The Leadership Committee (LC) comprises alumni who serve in various leadership capacities across the Alumni Board. The LC will set UIC Alumni Board agendas, overall direction and emphasis for the UIC Alumni Board and conduct the business of the UIC Alumni Board in the intervals between UIC Alumni Board meetings. The LC members are visible key stakeholders and provide leadership and vision. ​
Members
Ed Cohen BS ’75, Alumni Board Chair
Peter Skosey MUPP ’93, Alumni Advocacy Committee Chair
Kerl LaJeune BArch ’92, Alumni Board Chair Elect
Jim Dorociak BS ’81, PHARMD ’83, Outreach Committee Chair
Annie Li BS ’15, Student and Recent Alumni Engagement Committee Chair
Julio Nolasco BS ’02, Awards and Nominations Committee Chair
John Ochoa BArch ’78, Alumni Loyalty and Benefits Committee Chair
Kaveri Shah BS ’20, Alumni Career Services Committee Chair
Bill Merchantz BS ’79, Immediate Past Chair
Caryn Schultz Korman, Executive Director, UICAA, Ex-Officio Member







                            Alumni Advocacy Committee
                    








            Alumni Advocacy Committee
          

Alumni Advocacy Committee 
The Alumni Advocacy Committee (AAC) comprises alumni who help with advocacy and represent UIC priorities. The AAC coordinates the recommendations for nominations to the University of Illinois Board of Trustees and works closely with UIC Government Affairs to advance UIC legislative priorities. ​
Members
Peter Skosey MUPP ’93, *Committee Chair
Josué Barba JD ’12
Robin Ficke JD ’09
Jessica Gallagher MUPP ’19
Vittorio Gomez BA ’97
Josh Hahn MUPP ’16
Mary Maryland PhD ’94
David McEllis BA ’04, JD ’12
Marvin Slaughter, Jr. BA ’19
Anne–Marie St. Germaine (CUPPA)
Emily Tapia-Lopez MUPP ’07
Hugo Teruel (LAS)
Angelo Tzivas BA ’14, JD ’17
Heather Winter MPA ’16







                            Alumni Career Services Committee
                    








            Alumni Career Services Committee
          

Alumni Career Services Committee
The Alumni Career Services Committee (ACSC) advances traditional and web-based engagement pathways to career services for UIC alumni. This includes the Alumni Coaching Network, mentoring and networking programming and recommending life-long learning opportunities to be offered to UIC alumni.  ​
Members
Kaveri Shah BS ’20, *Committee Chair
Patricia Ballesteros BS ’97
Robert Bodura BS ’15
Naderh Elrabadi JD ’02
Nadia Hill BA ’16
Farrah Haque BA ’12, MS ’13
Gary Kenzer MSW ’84
Farid Peiravain PhD ’14
Angelo Poulikakos BS ’04
Gina Walton MD ’04







                            Alumni Loyalty and Benefits Committee
                    








            Alumni Loyalty and Benefits Committee
          

Alumni Loyalty and Benefits Committee
The Alumni Loyalty and Benefits Committee works to advise on alumni loyalty programs/opportunities and reviews the value of benefits offered to Alumni.
Members
John Ochoa BArch ’78, *Committee Chair
Mary Maryland PhD ’94
Uche Onwuta MPH ’97







                            Awards & Nominations Committee
                    








            Awards & Nominations Committee
          

Awards & Nominations Committee
The Awards & Nominations Committee (ANC) has two specific areas of focus:  ​

Identifying and selecting UIC alumni awards recipients ​
Work with the Vice Chair – Membership to understand the qualifications for open positions and needs of the various committees to inform new and rotating alumni volunteers

The ANC reviews applications/nominations to serve on the Alumni Board and will make recommendations for new members. The ANC will also annually present a slate of candidates to fill leadership positions. ​
Members
Julio Nolasco BS ’02, *Committee Chair
Booma S. Balasubramani PhD ’20
Michael Batis BA ’02
Tiffany Victor Castleberry DNP ’20
Lee LoBue BA ’04
Patricia Martinez BS ’09, MEd ’13
Joanne Meyerhoff BA ’71
Uche Onwuta MPH ’97







                            Outreach Committee
                    








            Outreach Committee
          




Outreach Committee
The Outreach Committee (OC) connects alumni with their closest affinity to UIC. Affinity is defined as a group that alumni are most closely linked to by common interest or purpose. Affinities can include, but are not limited to, geography, college, athletic team, Greek life, ethnic, veterans, etc. The OC also works to identify opportunities for alumni to connect through outreach efforts in the lifecycle of UIC Alumni Admissions Volunteer Program. ​
Members
Jim Dorociak BS ’81, PHARMD ’83, *Committee Chair
Cecelia Blue BS ’94, MBA ’07
Ebony Campbell BA ’00
Nicholas Crite BSEE ‘03, MUPP ’07, MPA ’12
Jessica Cybulski BA ’09
Joseph Dusek JD ’20
Debra Evans MS ’85
Karen Keesing BS ’96
Lajuana Murphy BA ’94
Eugene Sadhu BS ’00, MD ’07
Joe Scott BS ’04
Kelly Anne Smith MSW ’08
Matthew Steward BS ’01, JD ’07
Raven Temple BS ’16
Kevin Young JD ’86
​







                            Student and Recent Alumni Engagement Committee
                    








            Student and Recent Alumni Engagement Committee
          




Student and Recent Alumni Engagement Committee
The Student and Recent Alumni Engagement Committee (SRAEC) advises on programming specifically designed for students to engage them in the UIC alumni network from convocation to graduation. They also focus on programming to keep recent alumni connected and engaged with UIC.  The SRAEC supports efforts of the University Ambassadors program by providing training and resources to help ensure student success.  
Members
Annie Li BS ’15, *Committee Chair
Mirjana Antonic BA ’12, MED ’15
Jocelyn Bravo BA ’21
Peter Fraser BS ’17
Brian Havel BS ’15, DMD ’19
Evaristo Herrera BA ’12
Nida Husain BS ’16
David Klawitter BS ’15
Brennan Nichols BS ’09
Indira Reinert BS ’20
Qusai Shikari BS ’08, MENGR ’16
Joanna Skourletos BA ’12
Abhinav Subramaniam BS ’18
Tikia Travis BA ’17, MA ’20
Adrian Villarreal BA ’17, MEd ’21












            Get Involved
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Get Involved






            Accordion Section 2
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            General Responsibilities and Duties
                    








            General Responsibilities and Duties
          

The general duties of the UIC Alumni Board include, but are not limited to:
a. Serving as the official alumni volunteer leadership voice representing the collective UIC alumni body
b. Fostering synergy to enhance and advance relationships between UIC alumni, the UIC campus and the university at large
c. Advocating for UIC at the city, county, state and federal levels
d. Mentoring students and alumni
e. Promoting life-long learning and connections
f. Recruiting, nurturing and encouraging UIC alumni volunteerism
g. Building, promoting and strengthening alumni outreach and relationship building
h. Supporting alumni relations strategies consistent and complementary with the UIC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Advancement and university goals at large







                            Nomination Process
                    








            Nomination Process
          

All alumni (Alumni are defined as individuals who have completed coursework toward or who have been granted a postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma including an associate, baccalaureate, masters, doctoral, or first professional degree, as well as post-baccalaureate or first professional certificate) are eligible to become a member of the UIC Alumni Board. Applications are accepted on a yearly basis. The application period is open January 1–March 31 of each year. Applications received after that date will be placed in the pool for the following year. For more information, please email uicalumni@uic.edu.







                            Terms and Expectations
                    








            Terms and Expectations
          

Members of the UIC Alumni Board serve two-year terms. These terms can be renewed up to three consecutive terms, totaling six consecutive years of service. All members of the UIC Alumni Board are expected to:
a) Attend and participate in scheduled meetings
b) Represent the UIC Alumni Board by attending and participating in various UIC campus related activities
c) Make a gift or get a gift to UIC that is meaningful each year
d) Recommend potential alumni to get involved with UIC
e) Actively serve on an UIC Alumni Board committee
f) Vote on new board members and elect current board members to serve on the Leadership Committee














UIC Alumni Association


Back to main content









Alumni Career Services 


Network, Mentor and Hire 

Find a Coach 

Watch Career Webinars 



Alumni Exchange 

Awards and Recognition 


Alumni Awards 

Golden Grads 

Lighting of the Flame 

Circle Campus & UIC History 



Benefits and Services 

Class Notes 


Submit a Class Note! 

Sort by College 

Sort by Decade 

Professional Achievements 

Life Changes 

Obituaries 



Get Involved 

UIC Alumni Board 

UICAA Year in Review 










Submit a Class Note

        Share your story.
      




Update Your Information

        Tell us where to send news and updates and how you'd like to engage.
      




Connect With Your College

        Find contact information for your college or unit, or visit a regional campus's website.
      




IGNITE: The Campaign for UIC

        See the impact UIC is making through IGNITE.
      












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 815 W. Van Buren Street, Suite 400, Rice Building, MC 002, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-8272
advance@uic.edu

 




Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












