 















                            Sustainability | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Sustainability

Main Menu




        Sustainability Planning
      


Expand Sustainability Planning menu











                  Climate Action Implementation Plan (CAIP)
                




                  UIC Climate Commitments
                




                  Chancellor’s Committee on Sustainability and Energy
                




                  Plans and Standards
                









        Green Campus
      


Expand Green Campus menu











                  Recycling and Zero Waste
                




                  Biking
                




                  Energy
                




                  Grounds
                




                  Buildings
                




                  Laboratories
                




                  Water
                




                  Green Campus Tour – East Side
                









        Student Experience
      


Expand Student Experience menu











                  Sustainability Internship Program
                




                  Sustainability Fee
                




                  EcoVolunteer
                




                  Teaching Sustainability Initiative
                








Eyebrow menu


Sustainability Events


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Sustainability
              
Planning, Sustainability & Project Management 























                    UIC Celebrates Volunteerism.
                  
















                    UIC recovers 10,000 pounds of food.
                  
















                    UIC has many pollinator-friendly gardens.
                  

















                  Pause or play the slideshow
                





                  Show the next item
                














                  Show the next item
                















                    Show slide number 1
                  





                    Show slide number 2
                  





                    Show slide number 3
                  















Calendar icon






Sustainability Events






Envelope icon







Subscribe to Greenlights












Donate to Sustainability











The sustainability unit within the Office of Planning, Sustainability and Project Management sets forth the university’s sustainability goals outlined in the UIC Climate Commitments and executed via the Climate Action Implementation Plan under the guidance of the Chancellor’s Committee on Sustainability and Energy.







            Quick Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Climate Action Implementation Plan
                    

                The CAIP is a refined cost-effective portfolio of solutions to be implemented by 2028
            












                            Chancellor’s Committee on Sustainability & Energy
                    

                The CCSE develops strategies to institutionalize the sustainability goals and supports planning and provides data.
            












                            Recycling and Waste Management
                    

                One of the Signature Services  our unit provides to the university that benefits the campus community.
            












                            Arthington Mall Plaza
                    

                UIC's newest sustainable green infrastructure project features over 10,000 square feet of rain gardens and native plants
            












                            Green Building and Campus Sustainability Standards
                    

                A Signature Service  our unit provides to the university that benefits the campus community.
            











            signature programs
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Sustainability Fee
                    

                Funding for small, short-term projects to help to subsidize long-term projects on campus. Any UIC Student can apply!
            









                            Tree Campus USA
                    

                Learn how we promote effective
tree and landscape management, campus community
involvement, and nature
connectivity.
            









                            Sustainability Internship Program (SIP)
                    

                Hands-on learning experience for UIC undergrad students in Spring for credit and paid in Summer. Staff can be Mentors!
            









                            Bike Friendly University
                    

                It's easy to bike around UIC with racks at every building, fix-it stations throughout and showers available to everyone.
            









                            Energy Conscious Campus
                    

                UIC is reducing its energy waste one step at a time with renewables, retrofits, and using SMART meters.
            









                            Bee Campus USA
                    

                UIC was the first official Bee Campus USA in Illinois and take a stand on the importance of pollinators on campus.
            









                            EcoVolunteers
                    

                Volunteering on campus is a great
way to learn more about sustainability,
as well as to market yourself.
            









                            EcoReps
                    

                EcoReps help facilitate communication from the CCSE via the Office of Sustainability to their respective units.
            









                            Guest Sustainability Speaking
                    

                Fill out the form to request someone from the Office of Sustainability come talk to your next class, event, or meeting.
            









                            Green Campus Tour
                    

                Discover
various aspects of sustainability through this self-guided walking tour of the east side of campus.
            









                            AASHE STARS
                    

                UIC earned Silver level recognition in 2018 and we strive to achieve Gold.
            












            News
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            PSPM Sustainability Team Annual Report 2021
                    

                Monday, November 29, 2021
            









                            UIC Labs Compete in the 2021 International Freezer Challenge for the 5th time
                    

                Monday, October 18, 2021
            

                In January 2021, non-profit organizations, International Institute for Sustainable Laboratories (I2SL) and My Green Lab, have partnered together for the fifth year in a row to run the 2021 International Laboratory Freezer Challenge, a cold storage competition…
            












                            Native Plant Garden Weeding Event
                    

                Tuesday, June 15, 2021
            

                On a gorgeous sunny May morning, the Office of Planning, Sustainability and Project Management (PSPM) organized a Native Prairie Garden Hands-On Maintenance Workday event to educate UIC faculty and staff about native garden…
            












                            PSPM Partners with UIC Latino Cultural Center to Launch Seed Library Crowdfunding Campaign
                    

                Monday, April 12, 2021
            

                In 2015, UIC Heritage Garden students used a carry-on sized suitcase to design and build a mobile seed library. This lime green suitcase  full of seeds has since sprouted into a tool kit…
            












                            UIC Students Collect Most Food for Homeless of any Campus Nationwide
                    

                Tuesday, January 5, 2021
            

                In the Fall of 2020, volunteers with UIC’s Food Recovery Network (FRN) chapter collected 7,589 pounds of food and donated it to area homeless shelters. UIC has been recognized for the achievement of…
            












                            PSPM Sustainability Team Annual Report 2020
                    

                Monday, November 30, 2020
            

                This year, the Office of Sustainability grew because we were combined into the Office of Planning, Sustainability, and Project Management (PSPM) under the direction of Dave Taeyaerts, Associate Vice-Chancellor for Planning, Sustainability, and…
            












            More Sustainability Recognition in UIC Today
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Earth Day 2020
                    

                April 22, 2020. Letter from the Chancellor.
            









                            Virtual Earth Day events promote ‘Plastic-Free UIC
                    

                April 14, 2020.
            









                            UIC receives UNA Global Goal Award
                    

                November 5, 2019. UIC was recognized for its leadership in climate action from the United Nations Association.
            









                            Volunteers help keep campus clean
                    

                May 31, 2019.  VCAS Employees help clean the campus and divert recyclables from the landfill.
            









                            UIC wins Emerald Award for sustainability plan
                    

                May 3, 2019. UIC won a 2019 Emerald Award for Organizational Leadership from the Illinois Green Alliance for the CAIP.
            









                            A call for public transit support
                    

                April 29, 2019. Cynthia Klein-Banai speaks on the importance of public transportation April 25 at Union Station.
            









                            UIC earns national recognition for sustainability
                    

                September 25, 2018. UIC has been recognized for its sustainability efforts with several recent acknowledgements.
            









                            UIC named Green Ribbon School Award
                    

                May 16, 2018. UIC wins U.S. Dept. of Education sustainability award.
            









                            Taking action to enhance sustainability
                    

                April 21, 2018.  Sustainability presented UIC’s progress and goals to improve environmental performance.
            









                            U of I leaders sign letter supporting energy
                    

                January 24, 2017. UofI system leaders send a letter to the White House to accelerate progress to a clean energy future.
            









                            UIC lauded for sustainability efforts
                    

                January 17, 2017. UIC accepts the Illinois Governor’s Sustainability Award.
            









                            Climate Commitments
                    

                April 12, 2016. Chancellor Amiridis announced four climate commitments that  confront the challenges of climate change.
            









                            UIC earns silver rating for sustainability
                    

                November 4, 2014. UIC was rated “silver” by the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education.
            









                            UIC wins state award for sustainability
                    

                December 10, 2013. UIC was one of 27 institutions across the state to receive a Governor’s Sustainability Award.
            




















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Get Involved


Chancellor's Committee on Sustainability and Energy


EcoVolunteer


EcoReps


UIC Green Teams




Memberships & Reporting


Second Nature


AASHE STARS


Bicycle Friendly University (BFU℠)


Tree Campus USA


Bee Campus USA


1% for the planet




Stay Informed


Subscribe to the Greenlights Newsletter


BAM! Bicycle Advisory Meeting


Green Labs Committee


Green Internships


Office of Sustainability News








Connect with us


Staff


About


Donate to Sustainability


Web Privacy Notice






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Office of Planning, Sustainability and Project Management
1140 S. Paulina St., 150 PSB Chicago, IL 60612
Phone: (312) 413-9816
sustainability@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












