 















                            Sustainability Internship Program | Sustainability | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Sustainability

Main Menu




        Sustainability Planning
      


Expand Sustainability Planning menu











                  Climate Action Implementation Plan (CAIP)
                




                  UIC Climate Commitments
                




                  Chancellor’s Committee on Sustainability and Energy
                




                  Plans and Standards
                









        Green Campus
      


Expand Green Campus menu











                  Recycling and Zero Waste
                




                  Biking
                




                  Energy
                




                  Grounds
                




                  Buildings
                




                  Laboratories
                




                  Water
                




                  Green Campus Tour – East Side
                









        Student Experience
      


Expand Student Experience menu











                  Sustainability Internship Program
                




                  Sustainability Fee
                




                  EcoVolunteer
                




                  Teaching Sustainability Initiative
                








Eyebrow menu


Sustainability Events


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Sustainability
              
Planning, Sustainability & Project Management 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Sustainability


Student Experience


Sustainability Internship Program






Sustainability Internship Program
Offering hands-on learning experiences for University of Illinois at Chicago undergraduate students that advance the overall mission of greater social, economic, and environmental sustainability in the campus community.
This unique, multi-year program provides an intellectual framework for students to apply classroom learning to project-based engagement. Since summer 2014 we have connected over 200 students to sustainability projects on UIC's campus.
Open to UIC undergraduate students only, students from fields of engineering, architecture, urban studies, public health, nursing, and liberal arts and sciences, have completed the program. Students have been placed in internships across the campus, in units such as Campus Housing, Dining Services, the Children’s Center, Capital Programs, Campus Utilities, Facilities Management, Civil Engineering, the Center for Literacy, the Energy Initiative, Gallery 400, UI Hospital, and the School of Dentistry, as well as outside partners such as The Field Museum and the One Earth Film Festival. Projects vary from waste reduction initiatives and community outreach, to data research and  water conservation, and much more.
Summer 2022 Internship Opportunities Include:
Greenhouse gas emissions tracking and analysis, communications and social media, transportation system development, carbon offset procurement, gardening, compostable waste education and disposal, environmental history research, vermiculture waste education and research, prairie habitat monitoring, energy efficiency promotion, food scrap recovery, and more!






            The Students
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Go to slide 1


Go to slide 2


Go to slide 3


Go to slide 4


Go to slide 5


Go to slide 6


Go to slide 7


Go to slide 8


Go to slide 9


Go to slide 10


Go to slide 11














Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Summer 2014 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Spring 2015 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Summer 2015 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Spring 2016 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Summer 2016 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Spring 2017 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Summer 2017 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Spring 2018 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Summer 2018 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Spring 2019 cohort of SIP students












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





The Summer 2019 cohort of SIP students











            About the SIP Program
          Heading link



 
Copy link





What is SIP?

The Sustainability Internship Program (SIP) is a multi-year program that starts with a for-credit (US/PUBH 390) spring course.  SIP offers an internship placement at a UIC department or affiliated organization, weekly seminars, and field outings that cover a range of educational and skill building topics, leadership development and project management experience.



What are the Seminars?

Seminar topics include environmental, cultural, and energy sustainability issues,  institutional challenges and change management, campus structure and administration, campus sustainability programs, and job readiness.



Intern Expectations

Interns are expected to develop a work plan and project goals, meet regularly with an experienced mentor, share experiences with other SIP interns, attend weekly seminars and outings, and present their project results at a virtual poster presentation.



Spring Internship Program

The spring internship is a for-credit class held during the semester (US/PUBH390); in addition to a weekly 1.25 hour seminar, students are required to commit approximately eight (8) hour a week to their assigned internship.
Although the course is cross listed in the College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs and the School of Public Health, all majors are welcome and encouraged to apply.
Successful completion of the spring internship program guarantees  undergraduate students an internship in the paid summer 2022 program!
 
 



Summer Internship Program

The 2023 summer program runs May 30 – August 4.  In addition to approximately 20 hours a week working on your internship, you are required to attend a weekly seminar on Wednesdays, 10:00-12:00.
Successful completion of the summer program guarantees registered, undergraduate students continued employment with the UIC Sustainability office as a student mentor for future cohorts!
 



How to Apply

Applications for Summer 2022 are now closed.  The next session will be Spring 2023, when US/PUBH 390 will be open for enrollment.
Internships will be updated regularly; check this Box folder often for updated internship positions.
 








            What SIP students do.
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Poster Presentations
                    

                SIP students present their findings at the poster presentation at the end of each semester.
            












                            Field Trips
                    

                SIP students visit off campus sustainable businesses such as the Lakeshore Recycling Plant, where UIC sends its trash.
            












                            Interdisciplinarity
                    

                SIP Students work across departments to implement sustainability, such as "Gardening for a Changing Climate" internship.
            












                            Classroom Learning
                    

                SIP student are immerged in relavant sustainability topics and issues.
            












                            Real-World Data
                    

                SIP students help UIC staff gather data through university waste audits.
            












                            Sustainability Tours
                    

                SIP students discover cultural sustainability connections at the Heritage Garden or Greenhouse.
            









            SIP in the UIC News
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Students engage in sustainability projects
                    

                March 8, 2021
            









                            Sustainability honored for internship program
                    

                September 22, 2017
            









                            Student measures building energy use in Sparkys
                    

                October 20, 2015
            









                            Internships to help save the Earth, learn
                    

                July 8, 2014
            








Faculty & Staff:
Interested in Mentoring a Student?








Student Experience


Back to main content









Sustainability Internship Program 


SIP Mentor Information 



Sustainability Fee 

EcoVolunteer 

Teaching Sustainability Initiative 













 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Get Involved


Chancellor's Committee on Sustainability and Energy


EcoVolunteer


EcoReps


UIC Green Teams




Memberships & Reporting


Second Nature


AASHE STARS


Bicycle Friendly University (BFU℠)


Tree Campus USA


Bee Campus USA


1% for the planet




Stay Informed


Subscribe to the Greenlights Newsletter


BAM! Bicycle Advisory Meeting


Green Labs Committee


Green Internships


Office of Sustainability News








Connect with us


Staff


About


Donate to Sustainability


Web Privacy Notice






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Office of Planning, Sustainability and Project Management
1140 S. Paulina St., 150 PSB Chicago, IL 60612
Phone: (312) 413-9816
sustainability@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












