 












                            Marketing and Brand Management | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Marketing and Brand Management

Main Menu




        Marketing Toolbox
      


Expand Marketing Toolbox menu











                  University Style Guide
                




                  UIC Fonts
                




                  Photography & Video
                




                  Logos
                




                  Banners
                









        Other Resources
      


Expand Other Resources menu











                  Web
                




                  Stationery
                




                  Powerpoint Template
                




                  Email Signature
                




                  Zoom Backgrounds
                




                  Campus Film Office
                




                  Communicators’ Council
                




                  IGNITE Campaign Style Guide
                









        UIC Licensing Program
      


Expand UIC Licensing Program menu











                  Corporate Responsibility
                




                  Endorsement Policy
                









        Contact Us
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Marketing and Brand Management
              


















The Office of Marketing and Brand Management serves the University of Illinois Chicago by providing resources and guidance to help ensure that the institution’s marketing and communications initiatives are aligned with the university’s brand and identity. Maintaining consistency in messaging and design across the university reinforces the UIC brand overall.
All communications from the University of Illinois Chicago, whether originating from a college or an individual program, are reflections of the institution. The logos, typefaces, colors, and treatment of photos and text all project attributes of UIC.
The Office of Marketing and Brand Management is housed within the Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications. If you’re a media outlet and need to speak with a university representative, visit the Public Affairs contact page.







            Quick links
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            University Style Guide
                    









                            Logos
                    









                            Campus Announcements
                    









                            Photography
                    









                            Banners
                    









                            Campus Film Office
                    









                            UIC Licensing Program
                    









                            Endorsement Policy
                    









                            IGNITE Campaign Style Guide
                    












            About the office
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Joshua Clark
        


Institutional Marketing
Marketing and Brand Management develops and executes strategic marketing campaigns designed to strengthen the university’s reputation and identity as a leading academic and research institution.
Sustaining a strong brand image for the university is critical in promoting awareness, understanding and support among students, faculty, staff, alumni, donors, opinion leaders, and the broader public.
Marketing Support to Units
In addition to marketing UIC at an institutional level, the Office of Marketing and Brand Management is available to provide integrated marketing communications support to the university’s schools, colleges and programs. The staff focuses its efforts on projects that align with UIC’s strategic priorities. The office works with units to define goals, objectives, strategies and tactics to help ensure that marketing communications projects are successful and cost-effective.
















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































UIC Offices


Office of the UIC Chancellor


UI System


UI Alumni Association


IGNITE: The campaign for UIC




Strategic Marketing and Communications Sites


UIC Today


Brand Resources


RED WordPress multisite


Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications


Disability Resources


Emergency Information


Privacy Policy


Contact Us








Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter





















YouTube










Tumblr











Contact
 Office of Marketing and Brand Management
601 S. Morgan St., 1330 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3456
marketing@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












