 












                            UIC Licensing Program | Marketing and Brand Management | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Marketing and Brand Management

Main Menu




        Marketing Toolbox
      


Expand Marketing Toolbox menu











                  University Style Guide
                




                  UIC Fonts
                




                  Photography & Video
                




                  Logos
                




                  Banners
                









        Other Resources
      


Expand Other Resources menu











                  Web
                




                  Stationery
                




                  Powerpoint Template
                




                  Email Signature
                




                  Zoom Backgrounds
                




                  Campus Film Office
                




                  Communicators’ Council
                




                  IGNITE Campaign Style Guide
                









        UIC Licensing Program
      


Expand UIC Licensing Program menu











                  Corporate Responsibility
                




                  Endorsement Policy
                









        Contact Us
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Marketing and Brand Management
              









UIC Licensing Program





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Trademark Protection
Marketing and Brand Management oversees University of Illinois Chicago’s licensing program for its institutional marks. The office protects and promotes the university’s registered trademarks, as well as other names, seals, logos, school colors and other indicia (“University Trademarks”) that are representative of the university. UIC trademarks may be used solely with permission of UIC.
UIC’s licensing program regulates trademarks from being used by unauthorized parties to protect the university’s reputation. The program ensures that vendors producing UIC merchandise are licensed and follow the university’s Code of Conduct.
UIC has partnered with Learfield Licensing Partners for the administration and marketing of the university’s licensing program.






            Items for Sale Using University Trademarks Must be Licensed
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Only an officially licensed vendor may produce merchandise bearing the University Trademarks. Items offered for sale to the public will include a royalty fee charged at the wholesale level, which will be reflected in the vendor’s price. UIC’s royalty rate, the fee to use the university’s trademarks, is 10% on products sold commercially.
Promotional items manufactured for internal use by students, staff or affiliates will not bear a royalty fee. These giveaway and premium items may not be resold and must be manufactured by a licensed vendor.
Students, staff or affiliates who are ordering promotional items should inform the vendor that the product is not for resale and is exempt from royalty fees.
Information for Licensees
UIC has partnered with Learfield Licensing Partners to streamline the licensing application and artwork approval process for licensees. To become a licensee, apply on Learfield’s website.
Information for UIC Campus Units
UIC campus units are required to work with vendors that are licensed to use UIC’s institutional and athletic marks. Here is a list of licensed vendors.
If the vendor you want to work with is not licensed, they can become licensed by completing this application on Learfield Licensing Partner’s website. All artwork is automatically routed to Marketing and Brand Management for review and approval through Learfield’s website.
Most campus units already have an existing logo or wordmark, which should be used on merchandise. Don’t see your unit on the logo website? Request a logo.
Campus units are exempt from paying royalties except for those reselling merchandise. If a campus unit is producing products for resale, UIC’s standard 10% royalty fee will be added to the price of the merchandise ordered through the vendor. The vendor will undertake all the royalty reporting obligations.
If staff members are ordering promotional items to be given away free of charge, they should inform the vendor that the product is not for resale and is exempt from royalty fees.
Information for UIC Student Groups
UIC student groups are required to work with vendors that are licensed to use UIC’s institutional and athletic marks. Here is a list of licensed vendors.
If the vendor you want to work with is not licensed, they can become licensed by completing this application on Learfield Licensing Partner’s website. All artwork is automatically routed to Marketing and Brand Management for review and approval through Learfield’s website.






            Rules for Using UIC Logo
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Only official UIC student organizations that are a part of the Center of Student Involvement are allowed to use the official UIC logos. Unofficial student organizations may use the university name but only in the following matter: “[Name of unofficial student organization]” followed by “University of Illinois Chicago”.
Student groups are exempt from paying royalties except for those reselling merchandise (i.e., for fundraising purposes). If the student group is producing products for resale, UIC’s standard 10% royalty fee will be added to the price of the merchandise ordered through the vendor. The vendor will undertake all the royalty reporting obligations.
If a student group is ordering promotional items to be given away free of charge, they should inform the vendor that the product is not for resale and is exempt from royalty fees.








UIC Licensing Program


Back to main content









Corporate Responsibility 

Endorsement Policy 













 
University of Illinois Chicago











































UIC Offices


Office of the UIC Chancellor


UI System


UI Alumni Association


IGNITE: The campaign for UIC




Strategic Marketing and Communications Sites


UIC Today


Brand Resources


RED WordPress multisite


Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications


Disability Resources


Emergency Information


Privacy Policy


Contact Us








Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter





















YouTube










Tumblr











Contact
 Office of Marketing and Brand Management
601 S. Morgan St., 1330 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3456
marketing@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












