 












                            Office of the Vice Chancellor for Strategic Marketing and Communications | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of the Vice Chancellor for Strategic Marketing and Communications

Main Menu




        Staff Directory
      




        About
      




        Contact Us
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of the Vice Chancellor for Strategic Marketing and Communications
              


















The UIC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Strategic Marketing and Communications directs initiatives to elevate the profile and reputation of UIC, Chicago’s only public research university. The office oversees two units – Public Affairs and Marketing and Brand Management – that cohesively work to promote UIC’s contributions in teaching, research, public service and economic development.

The Office of Public Affairs is an information source and public portal to the campus. Working with media in all its forms, the office broadens public awareness and understanding of UIC, its mission and the achievements of its faculty and students. In addition to outreach through the media, it manages UIC’s own news and information properties including UIC today; audio and video productions; and social media channels.
Marketing and Brand Management serves UIC by providing resources and guidance to help ensure that the institution’s marketing and communications initiatives are aligned with the university’s brand and identity. Maintaining consistency in messaging and design across the university reinforces the UIC brand overall.








            Job Opportunities
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Director of Marketing and Communications
                    









                            Director of Research and Science Communications
                    












            SMC: What We Do
          Heading link



 
Copy link





















Previous
Next



New branded campus-wide banners installed
Branded campus-wide banners were recently installed and include three pride points in English and Spanish. Profile banners and welcome banners in several languages were also installed. The welcome banners were produced in collaboration with the Office of Global Engagement.


UIC today story: UIC’s Innovation Center hosts U.S. Treasury Secretary Yellen, Pritzker, Lightfoot
U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker and Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot toured UIC's Innovation Center on March 2, 2022, and officials highlighted the cutting-edge work going on at UIC as a “shining example” of innovation and collaboration.

  Learn More About UIC today story: UIC’s Innovation Center hosts U.S. Treasury Secretary Yellen, Pritzker, Lightfoot



28 Days of Black Excellence
The UIC home page celebrates “28 Days of Black Excellence,” a podcast series featuring inspiring stories of Black students, faculty, staff, alumni and friends in celebration of Black History Month

  Learn More About 28 Days of Black Excellence



Call Me MISTER feature in today.uic.edu
On May 2, 2022, UIC today featured three College of Education students in the inaugural group of the Call Me MISTER initiative, a program designed to address the scarcity of male teachers of color in the nation’s elementary classrooms. 

  Learn More About Call Me MISTER feature in today.uic.edu



The Best of UIC
View the Best of UIC: a photo gallery created by the Marketing and Brand Management team.

  Learn More About The Best of UIC











            Mission
          Heading link



 
Copy link








To uphold and enhance the reputation, image and values of UIC and its diverse and inclusive community and to showcase and celebrate the university’s contributions in teaching, research, public service and economic development.









Learn how
We serve UIC








            Latest news and information about COVID-19
          Heading link



 
Copy link






The Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications has created and frequently updates a webpage to keep the UIC community up to date on the campus’ response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). Read more for current official communications, frequently asked questions, resources for the community, and links to public health organizations.



      Read more on UIC today.
    















            Project Spotlight: Break Through Tech Chicago
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The SMC team worked with the College of Engineering to create a photo essay featuring Break Through Tech Chicago, an initiative with the goal of achieving gender equality in tech. The essay documents the Sprinternship experience of five UIC students in the spring of 2022 at Morningstar, Inc.


      Read "A new vision for tech in Chicago" on today.uic.edu
    

















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 Office of the Vice Chancellor for Strategic Marketing and Communications
601 S. Morgan (MC288), Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3456
Fax: (312) 996-3754
vcsmc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter





















YouTube















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












