 












                            Graduate Admissions | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Computer Science


Graduate


Graduate Admissions






Graduate Admissions






            admissions
          Heading link



 
Copy link






All applicants applying for Fall ’23 admission to the computer science graduate program are granted a reduced application fee, as follows: international students will only pay $100 (for the international evaluation fee), and domestic students will pay $0. To qualify for this reduction, doctoral applications must be fully completed before December 15, 2022, and masters applications must be fully completed before February 15, 2023. These reduced fees will be automatically applied at the time of application.
Doctoral applicants are strongly encouraged to:

Check out our typical admission requirements thresholds (GPA, GRE) before applying, as follows:

Grade point average: at least 3.5 on a scale of 4.0 for the final two years of undergraduate study, as well as for any graduate work completed; or at least 3.2 on a scale of 4.0 for all years of undergraduate study.
GRE average score requirements: minimum of 300 GREV+GREQ score (with a minimum of 140+ GREV).
However, having a GPA/GRE higher than the minimum is no guarantee of admission


Contact directly specific faculty they are interested in working with
Watch the recording below of the departmental doctoral recruiting session which was held November, 2nd 2022.







            Grad video
          Heading link



 
Copy link


















            grad info
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Masters applicants are also strongly encouraged to check out our typical admission requirements thresholds (GPA, GRE) before applying.
PhD students in their first five years of enrollment are guaranteed a funded appointment for fall and spring that includes a full tuition waiver, a partial fee waiver, and a stipend. Students are also eligible for summer support. Students must remain in good academic standing and successfully perform the duties of their assistantships.
Applicants interested in the MS and PhD programs in computer science must apply online through the graduate admissions website. Applicants are reviewed by the computer science graduate admissions committee.

MS program applicants are expected to have earned an undergraduate degree in computer science or a closely related field. (Note: U.S. students who have very strong undergraduate records in other fields are occasionally admitted with special consideration; see the “Admission requirements” tab below for further information.) Download our master’s degree booklet for an overview of the MS program.
PhD program applicants typically have earned a bachelor’s degree in computer science or a related field.







            Detailed information
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Detailed information:







                                Application deadlines
                          


                                Admission requirements
                          


                                Application requirements
                          


                                Core courses
                          


                                Non-degree
                          








            info
          

Fall

December 15: recommended deadline for PhD applicants
February 15: all PhD and MS applicants

Spring

July 15: all PhD applicants and MS international applicants
November 1: domestic MS applicants











            Admission Requirements
          


Bachelor’s degree in computer science, computer engineering, or a closely related field. In addition, U.S. students who have very strong undergraduate records in other fields are occasionally admitted as non-degree students to take one or more semesters of undergraduate CS courses, and then to apply for the MS program. Please contact our student affairs  office at ask.csgrad@uic.edu for specific guidance.
Grade point average: at least 3.5 on a scale of 4.0 for the final 60 semester hours (90 quarter hours) of undergraduate study.
GRE general test scores are required for financial aid applicants as well as for applicants with degrees from outside the United States. GRE general test scores are recommended for all other applicants. Average score requirements: minimum of 300 GREV+GREQ score (with a minimum of 140+ GREV).
Minimum English competency test score: applicants whose native language is not English are required to take an English competency test. Minimum required scores are: iBT Internet-based TOEFL of 80, with subscores of Reading 19, Listening 17, Speaking 20, and Writing 21; New Paper-Based TOEFL (after August 2018) of 60, with subscores of Reading 19, Listening 17, Writing 21; Institutional Testing Paper-Based TOEFL (prior to August 2018) of 550; IELTS of 6.5, with all four subsections of at least 6.0; or PTE-Academic of 54, with subscores of Reading 51, Listening 47, Speaking 53, and Writing 56.











            Application requirements
          


Admissions application completed online
Transcripts from all previous undergraduate and graduate work
Test scores sent directly by the testing service to UIC’s graduate admissions office
Letters of recommendation (3 for PhD, 2 for MS)
Statement of purpose
Curriculum vitae











            info
          

Applicants have typically completed the following coursework as part of their undergraduate education. Applicants with undergraduate degrees in fields other than computer science can still be accepted into our graduate program, under the condition that they complete the required coursework during their first years of graduate study.

CS 111 Program Design I
CS 141 Program Design II
CS 151 Mathematical Foundations of Computing
CS 251 Data Structures
CS 261 Machine Organization
CS 301 Languages & Automata
CS 342 Software Design
CS 361 Computer Systems
CS 385 Operating System Concepts & Design
CS 401 Computer Algorithms I

See the UIC Course Catalog for course descriptions.










            info
          

U.S. citizens and permanent residents are eligible to apply to the computer science non-degree program. Admission to the non-degree program does not guarantee future admission to the degree-seeking program.
Deadlines: August 1 for fall; November 15 for spring.
Requirements: In addition to the minimum university requirements for non-degree applicants, the CS department requires transcripts, statement of purpose, and one recommendation letter.












Apply now








Graduate


Back to main content









Admitted Students 

Admissions 


Financial Aid and Funding 

Graduate Admissions FAQ 



Courses 

MS Program 


Project Option 

Thesis Option 

Graduate Program Manuals 



PhD Program 


Qualifier Examination 

Preliminary Examination 

Dissertation Process 

Graduate Program Manuals 



PhD Alumni List 

Post-Graduation Outcomes 

Student Resources 













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












