 












                            Graduation & Diplomas | Office of the Registrar | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of the Registrar

Main Menu




        Current Students
      


Expand Current Students menu











                  Registration Services
                




                  Calendars
                




                  Financial Matters
                




                  Student Records
                




                  Transcripts
                









        Former Students
      


Expand Former Students menu











                  Calendars
                




                  Student Records
                




                  Transcripts
                




                  Campus Policies and Student Notifications
                









        Faculty & Staff
      


Expand Faculty & Staff menu











                  Course Management and Academic Space Scheduling
                




                  Faculty Self-Service
                




                  Calendars
                




                  Classes
                




                  Grades
                




                  Registration
                




                  Student Records Policy
                








Eyebrow menu


Prospective Students


AES Staff


Textbook Adoption


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of the Registrar
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Office of the Registrar


Student Records


Graduation & Diplomas






Graduation & Diplomas






            Graduation_Diploma
          Heading link



 
Copy link



All UIC graduates will receive one diploma per degree earned, free of charge. 





                            Commencement
                    








            Commencement
          

At the official campus-wide commencement ceremony, the Chancellor presides as the President confers degrees. You may also participate in convocation, sponsored by your college, school, or department. Other activities have also been planned throughout the weekend.
Find out everything you need to know on our official commencement website







                            Intent to Graduate
                    








            Intent to Graduate
          

Undergraduate and Graduate students must file an Intent to Graduate Form via Student Self-Service.
Submission deadline is Friday of the third week of the fall and spring semesters, Friday of the second week in summer.
Students cannot be cleared for graduation until they have filed their declaration and have had their academic records reviewed for progress in completing degree requirements.







                            Delivery of your Diploma
                    








            Diploma Delivery
          

University of Illinois diplomas are 8.5 x 11 inches and sent by first-class mail to a student’s diploma address approximately a week or two after your degree has been awarded. Please review or create a diploma address through student self service as necessary before leaving the university. If you have not received your diploma within 75 days for domestic and 105 days for international addresses passed the mailing date please contact the Office of the Registrar – Records Unit.
After mailing, if your diploma is returned to the Office of the Registrar, you will be responsible for providing a corrected address and paying for any forwarding mail charges as well as processing fees. If your diploma is not returned to the Office of the Registrar and 90 days for domestic and 120 days for international address has passed since the mailing date, you will be responsible for providing the correct address and paying for the cost of the replacement diploma.







                            Order a Replacement Diploma and/or eDiploma
                    








            Order Diploma
          


Do you want another copy of your diploma or has your diploma been lost or damaged? The following Online Diploma Service is available through our official diploma vendor, The Michael Sutter Company:
 



Order a Replacement Diploma – Order your diploma easily online. You will be able to choose Standard Delivery or Express Overnight Delivery. There is a $30.00 charge for your diploma replacement. Your Diploma will be printed and mailed within 1-2 days of your order.
Order an Official eDiploma – Your UIC eDiploma is a Signed and Certified PDF of your original paper diploma used for easy diploma verification purposes. The Illinois eDiploma is a one-time charge of $5. You will receive your eDiploma within minutes of ordering. You can then share your eDiploma as often as you need.
Diploma Status – Search the status of your diploma order whether it is your new diploma or replacement diploma through our Online Diploma Service.

Once a diploma request is processed you will receive a secure ID by email within 48 hours. If you have received your diploma recently then you may already have this Secure ID in an email or with your actual diploma.
Online Diploma Services

 
Note 1: For UIC degrees earned from Summer 2000 to Fall 2004 Social Security number is requested, Fall 2004 and after the University Identification number is required. If you graduated before Fall 2004, you will need to “Submit a Diploma Request” to order a new diploma.
Note 2: For UIC School of Law Alumni (formerly John Marshall Law School), you will need to “Submit a Diploma Request” to order a replacement diploma prior to Fall 2021.






            Order via mail
          

Diplomas may be ordered through the Office of the Registrar. Print out the Diploma re-issue application form, fill in the requested information and have it notarized.  Please include a check or money order payable to the University of Illinois at Chicago for $30 per diploma.
Mail Request to:
Office of the Registrar, MC 018
University  of Illinois at Chicago
Suite 1200 Student Services Building
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161














            Frequently Asked Questions
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Frequently Asked Questions
                    








            FAQ
          

Diploma FAQ











            Quick Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Registration Services
CalendarsFinancial Matters


Student RecordsTranscriptsCampus Policies


Registration FAQ











Student Records


Back to main content





















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































UIC Office of the Registrar


Current & Former Students


UIC Faculty & Staff








Contact Us


Contact Us!


Sitemap






Social Media Accounts








Contact
 Office of the Registrar, MC 018
Suite 1200, Student Services Building1200 West Harrison Street, Chicago, IL 60607-7161https://registrar.uic.edu/contact/
Phone: (312) 996-8600
registration@uic.edu

 Records
Phone: (312) 996-4381









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












