 












                            Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Freshman Students | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Students


Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Freshman Students






Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Freshman Students






            GPIP
          Heading link



 
Copy link






UIC offers a unique opportunity to freshman engineering students. Conceived of and supported by the faculty and the dean of the College of Engineering, the Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) gives incoming fall freshman students the opportunity to serve as paid interns during the summer months, providing they meet certain criteria by the end of their first year of study.
The GPIP application will be available for the 2022-2023 academic year in fall 2022. Only new transfer and freshman students starting in the fall are eligible to apply.







            GPIP Eligibility Requirements
          Heading link



 
Copy link



GPIP Eligibility Requirements





                            GPIP GPA and Pre-requisite Course Requirements
                    








            GPA
          


Maintain a GPA of 3.2 or greater for your first AND second semesters at UIC.
Complete at least 26 UIC semester hours during your freshman year.
Complete Math 180 (Calculus I) and Math 181 (Calculus II) with a B or  higher by the end of freshmen year. Students with AP credit for Calculus I and II must have that documentation on file with the College of Engineering. Note: Pre-calculus does not fulfill this requirement.
Complete at least two additional program-specified 100 level Engineering courses with a B or higher. Required courses by major.








                            Application and Other Eligibility Requirements
                    








            application
          


Direct acceptance into the College of Engineering and registration as a full-time student for Fall.
Commit to return to the UIC College of Engineering for the academic year or sophomore year
Be a U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or obtain permission to work legally in the United States.
If a student participates in an off-campus internship, which they secured on their own, they will not be placed by GPIP.
Complete mandatory questionnaires as well as deadlines that will occur throughout the academic year. This includes responding to emails from GPIP administrators in a timely fashion.








                            GPIP Compensation
                    








            pay
          


The College of Engineering will place students who fulfill the requirements into on-campus research labs or other entities within UIC.
Freshmen placed in UIC research labs will be paid $14/hour.
GPIP interns may work total of 256 hours during the course of their internship. Students cannot accrue overtime, so, you cannot work more than 8 hours in one day, or more than 40 hours in one week. It is up to the student and professor/supervisor to track the total number of hours worked and not exceed 256 for the summer.













            GPIP FAQs
          Heading link



 
Copy link



GPIP FAQs





                            What classes do I need to take in order to qualify for GPIP?
                    








            classes
          


Complete at least 26 UIC semester hours during your freshman year.
2 Math courses

Complete Math 180 (Calculus I) and Math 181 (Calculus II) with a B or higher by the end of freshman year.
Note: Pre-calculus does not fulfill this requirement.


2 program-specified (your major) 100 level Engineering courses with a B or higher. Required courses by major








                            What are the GPA requirements in order to qualify for GPIP?
                    








            gpa
          


You need a minimum 3.2 GPA for the Fall semester AND the Spring semester. A cumulative of 3.2 does not qualify you if you were under a 3.2 in either semester.
You need a minimum of a B for Calculus 1 & 2.
You need a minimum of a B for the required courses in your major. Required courses by major








                            Where will I be placed for the internship?
                    








            placement
          


Students who fulfill the program requirements will earn a place in an internship in a UIC research laboratory, or another entity on-campus.








                            What if I’m interested in interning with a company, off-campus?
                    








            when
          


If students prefer to do an off-campus internship at a company, they will be required to apply for those internships on their own. Opportunities to apply for off-campus internships will occur through annual career fairs, posted on Handshake, and other events with the Engineering Career Center.
Students are also encouraged to apply for internships that they learn about on their own through online searches and networking.
Off-campus internships WILL NOT be guaranteed. If a student does secure an off-campus internship, they will not be placed in an internship through the GPIP program








                            Can I take summer classes if I am interning through the GPIP program?
                    








            classes
          


If you decide to take classes over the summer you will have to arrange your schedule with your internship supervisor.
Past GPIP participants found that it was easier to take summer classes at UIC while completing an on-campus internship.
If you obtain an off-campus internship, we strongly recommend not taking summer classes as most off-campus supervisors will largely expect their summer interns to work full-time hours.








                            How long is the GPIP internship? What are the required work hours?
                    








            hours
          

GPIP interns may work total of 256 hours during the course of their internship. Students cannot accrue overtime, so, you cannot work more than 8 hours in one day, or more than 40 hours in one week. It is up to the student and professor/supervisor to track the total number of hours worked and not exceed 256 for the summer.







                            When do internships start?
                    








            start
          


On-campus internships at UIC will start in mid- to late-June.















Students/Alum


Back to main content









Search Handshake 

Employment Outcomes 

International Students 

Your Identity at Work 

Student Organizations 

UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections 

Freshman Internship Program (GPIP) 

Transfer Internship Program (GPIP) 

Services for Alumni 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












