 












                            Applied Health Sciences | Intercollege Transfer | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Intercollege Transfer

Main Menu




        Home
      




        Advising
      




        Information on Majors
      



Eyebrow menu


Undergraduate Catalog


Advising Development


Admissions


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Intercollege Transfer
              











Applied Health Sciences
Intercollege Transfer Information






            Intercollege Transfer Information Sessions
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Each of our programs are unique. Check out the respective programs for details on prerequisites and timelines for application.

Disability and Human Development–Virtual information sessions and/or individual appointments for pre-admissions advising for current UIC students are available and welcomed. For more on information sessions, ICT requirements and the link to apply: click here .
Rehabilitation Sciences–Virtual information sessions and/or individual appointments for pre-admissions advising for current UIC students are available and welcomed. For ICT requirements and the link to apply: click here.
Kinesiology– Online information sessions are available throughout the semester. To view upcoming sessions visit: https://ahs.uic.edu/kinesiology-nutrition/events. For ICT requirements and the link to apply, please visit go.uic.edu/KinesiologyICT
Nutrition– Information sessions are available monthly, check out the UIC KN Calendar for dates, times, and location: https://ahs.uic.edu/kinesiology-nutrition/events. For more details on ICT requirements and the link to apply: Click here.
Health Information Management– Individual appointments for pre-admissions advising for current UIC students available and welcomed. Click here for more information.




      College of Applied Health Sciences
    
















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 oad@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












