 












                            Education | Intercollege Transfer | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Intercollege Transfer

Main Menu




        Home
      




        Advising
      




        Information on Majors
      



Eyebrow menu


Undergraduate Catalog


Advising Development


Admissions


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Intercollege Transfer
              











Education
Intercollege Transfer Information Sessions






            ICT Info
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Inter-college Transfer Information Sessions RSVPs are done through iAdvise
Current UIC students who are interested in enrolling into the College of Education (EDUC) through an Intercollege Transfer are required to meet the following criteria:

HDL Major – minimum cumulative GPA (UIC and transfer) of 2.0
Urban Education Major – minimum cumulative GPA (UIC and transfer) of 2.50

Before submitting an Inter-College Transfer Application, consult with your currently assigned Academic Advisor to ensure that transferring to the College of Education is in your best interest.  We also encourage you to attend an Education Inter-College Transfer Information Session to learn more about the requirements and offerings of the College of Education.
It is recommended that a student take the following action prior to the submission of the Inter-College Transfer Application:

Consult with their current Academic Advisor to ensure that transferring is in the student’s best interest.
Run a hypothetical what-if uAchieve degree audit of the intended major to plan for pre-requisites or potential barriers.  You can find this using your my.uic.edu student portal.
Use the education.uic.edu website to learn about the major requirements.
Attend a College of Education Inter-College Transfer Information Session to learn more about the requirements.

Dates for the upcoming EDUC ICT Sessions for Fall 2022:
HDL Information Sessions

September 28, 2022 at 3:00pm via Zoom
October 26, 2022 at 3:00pm via Zoom
November 30, 2022 at 3:00pm via Zoom
December 14, 2022 at 3:00pm via Zoom

Urban Education Information Sessions

September 28, 2022 at 3:00pm via Zoom
October 26, 2022 at 3:00pm via Zoom
November 30, 2022 at 3:00pm via Zoom
December 14, 2022 at 3:00pm via Zoom

ICT applications are reviewed on a rolling basis. Final decisions on all applications will be made after final grades are posted for the semester, after December 15th in Fall semesters and after May 15th during Spring semesters.
You must be an official student admitted to the college in order to receive a degree from the College of Education.  Completion of the curriculum does not grant you automatic admission to the college, nor does it make you eligible for an education degree.
College of Education Academic Advisors are not currently taking individual appointments for students not enrolled in a College of Education major. Please schedule for an information session via iAdvise. 



      College of Education
    



      ICT Application
    



      Schedule an ICT Appointment in iAdvise
    
















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 oad@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












