 












                            MS Program | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Computer Science


Graduate


MS Program






MS Program






            Requirements
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Use the link at left to download our MS program overview in PDF.
        


In addition to the Graduate College minimum requirements, students must meet the following program requirements:

Minimum semester hours required: 36
Coursework: At least 28 hours (plus thesis hours), 32 hours (plus project hours), 36 hours (for coursework only). 12 hours (for thesis and project options) and 16 hours (for coursework only) must be CS course offerings at the 500 level (excluding CS 590, CS 595, CS 596, CS 597, CS 598, and CS 599). No more than one special topics course (CS 594) may be counted toward the 500-level CS requirement. At most 8 hours of pre-approved non-CS graduate courses may be counted toward the overall requirement.
Comprehensive Examination: None

Considering applying for master’s-level study at UIC? Our MS degree booklet provides an introduction to our CS curriculum, students, and alumni.






            Options to complete the master's degree
          Heading link



 
Copy link





Coursework-only option

In the course option, students complete all the credit hours toward the MS only through coursework.



Project option

The project option allows students to demonstrate their learning in the form of a substantive capstone project. The project work must demonstrate a high level of professional skill, but students do not need to formally present or defend their projects.



Thesis option

The thesis option is designed for graduate students with an interest in computer science research. The thesis option is strongly advised for students who may be interested in pursuing a PhD in the future.









            MS Students in Their Own Words
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Lydia Tse ’21
MS in Computer Science
Why did you choose UIC? It’s a great research institution that has an incredible computer science department. UIC is also where my parents met, so it has always had a soft spot in my heart.
What is your academic area of focus within your department? I’ve gravitated toward data-focused classes such as data and text mining, information retrieval, and machine learning.
How is UIC preparing you for your future goals? UIC has provided an environment in which I can thrive through learning and exploring multiple areas of CS. I’m so grateful to be mentored and inspired by so many incredible UIC CS department faculty and peers. Because of their guidance, I’ve been able to explore career paths in CS from teaching to research to industry. If it weren’t for their encouragement and support, I would not be where I am today.
Have you held any internships while at UIC? Synchrony. From there, I landed a full-time job at Nike as a data visualization engineer.
Looking broadly at your field of study, who is the person you admire the most, and why? I’m a huge fan of Dr. Latanya Sweeney. Not only has she blazed so many trails as a top-notch computer scientist, but her work serves as a continual reminder of the responsibility we all share as digital innovators.
What is your favorite thing to do in Chicago? Eating food. There are so many cool restaurants.






            Charic
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Charic Farinango Cuervo ’21
MS in Computer Science
Favorite course so far? I really enjoyed CS 415 Computer Vision. We did a project on 3D reconstruction.
What are your plans for after you finish school? I want to stay in AI, maybe data analysis. One option is to stay in the United States via the Optional Practical Training program, but I am required by my Fulbright scholarship to come back to Colombia, so I may work in a private company or university there.
What do you suggest a newcomer to Chicago see or do if they’ve already seen Navy Pier, the Riverwalk, and Skydeck? I like the lakefront, especially in summer. Ride bikes, go to parks, visit museums. I really enjoy that Chicago has different neighborhoods. If you go from one neighborhood to another, you’ll find that they are completely different.
Your primary hobby/outside interest: I like to play guitar and sing. Right now I’m practicing rock music in Spanish from Argentina and Mexico.
The best trip/vacation you’ve ever taken, and why: When I arrived in the United States, the Fulbright program put on an event: a weeklong getaway in Rochester, New York. I got to make friends with Fulbrighters from all over the world and went to Niagara Falls. It was a cool experience.






            Contacts
          Heading link



 
Copy link





Email us

If you have further questions about our graduate program, contact us at cs-grad@uic.edu.



Call us

You can reach us by phone at (312) 996-5940.











Graduate


Back to main content









Admitted Students 

Admissions 


Financial Aid and Funding 

Graduate Admissions FAQ 



Courses 

MS Program 


Project Option 

Thesis Option 

Graduate Program Manuals 



PhD Program 


Qualifier Examination 

Preliminary Examination 

Dissertation Process 

Graduate Program Manuals 



PhD Alumni List 

Post-Graduation Outcomes 

Student Resources 













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












