 












                            LinkedIn | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Career Tools


LinkedIn






LinkedIn






            linkedin
          Heading link



 
Copy link






LinkedIn is a professional social media platform designed for building connections for freelance work, a customer base, potential business partners or simply to keep job prospects open. Many UIC students have found jobs and internships using LinkedIn, while expanding their professional network.
The goal of LinkedIn in your job search is to get noticed by creating and sharing content that informs potential employers about your skills, interests and how you can solve problems.






            Helpful tips for a great LinkedIn experience
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Tips for Making the Most of Your Profile
                    








            tips
          


Recruiters are much more likely to click on your profile if you include a photo of yourself. Check out these tips from LinkedIn.
Include a headline that focuses on your career interest. If the industry picklist is limiting for you, use your headline to showcase your industry interests.
Create a custom LinkedIn URL with your name (Displays nicely on a resume). Follow these steps.
Upload projects and other media to your profile Summary. Here are tips and examples to boost your summary!
Once your profile is complete, follow companies and like company content that interests you (especially if you apply to them).
Build your company target list by checking out similar companies that you’re finding.
Find alumni who work at companies that interest you and create targeted messaging with a shared connection to UIC.








                            Sample LinkedIn Messages
                    








            messages
          

After an interview:
“Hello [NAME], Thank you for your time interviewing with me today. I know we’ll stay in touch via email, but would also like to connect here also. I look forward to hearing back from you soon.”
After rejecting an offer:
“Hello [NAME], Thanks again for your time interviewing me. As I shared, I will be accepting a position at another company. However, I would like to connect and keep in touch here. I look forward to staying in touch.”
Contacting UIC Alumni:
“Hello [NAME], I see that you attended UIC as well. What did you like best about UIC? I would like to connect and learn more about your role at [COMPANY]. I look forward to connecting. Thank you.”
Reaching out to a former co-worker for a referral:
“Hello [NAME], how are you? I can’t believe it’s already been a year since we interned at [COMPANY]. I see that you’re connected to a [NAME]. Would you be willing to introduce me to them? I would like to learn more about their role at [COMPANY]. Thank you.”
Contacting a company representative about a role you’re interested in:
“Hello [NAME], I am a student at UIC studying [MAJOR]. I’m interested in learning more about [ROLE] or [company’s involvement with X]. Would you be willing to connect with me to discuss this? Thanks!”







                            Suggested Groups to Join
                    








            groups
          


UIC College of Engineering – 2K+
UIC Alumni and Friends – 16K+
Entry Level Engineers – 138K+
Food/CPG/Beverage Industry Group – 56K+
Engineering Jobs Worldwide – 517K+
Project Management Institute – 231K+

Career Development companies to follow

Work it Daily
Human Workplace
The Muse













            Selected LinkedIn Features
          Heading link



 
Copy link




Salary insights on jobs come from employers and private submissions from members.
The How You Match feature analyzes your education, skills, years of experience, and current job title to see if you’re a fit with desired job titles.
The “Find Nearby” feature scans nearby devices during events, meetings and conferences. Try starting a conversation digitally and then introduce yourself. Use your phone and click on “My Network” and then “Find Nearby.”







            Make the most of your LinkedIn experience
          Heading link



 
Copy link








User icon






Build and maintain your profile






People Icon


 
Follow up with recruiters











Career Tools


Back to main content









Resume 

Cover Letter 

Searching 

Professional Introduction & Networking 

LinkedIn 

Interviewing 

Following Up & Thank You Messages 

Understanding Salaries 

Managing Offers 

Book an Appointment 










Build & Maintain your Network

        Networking is one of the most effective ways to create career opportunities, especially at the beginning of your career.
      




Following Up With Contacts & Employers

        Follow up on your job search and networking efforts to ensure more favorable outcomes.
      




Navigating the Interview Process

        Prepare for all phases of the interview process.  Build your confidence with additional preparation.
      












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












