 












                            Managing Offers | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Career Tools


Managing Offers






Managing Offers
We understand that determining whether or not to negotiate a job offer is often an exciting, yet complex decision. Therefore, the Engineering Career Center has established guidelines to promote positive recruiting behaviors that we encourage both students and employers to honor. Below are compiled best practices for students to help them decide if they should negotiate an offer.
Reneges (backing out of or not honoring an employment agreement that you have entered) are serious breaches of UIC’s recruitment understanding with employers. When students renege, it causes damage to your reputation, the Engineering Career Center, and UIC’s relationship with engineering employers. As a result, engineering student’s reneges can affect future opportunities for themselves and other UIC students.
When these instances occur the Engineering Career Center will investigate and determine appropriate actions. We understand that there may be reasonable circumstances that could result in either students and/or employers needing to alter their employment offer commitments.
If it is determined that a student has reneged on an employer without explanation, potential consequences may include:

A mandatory meeting with a Career Advisor explaining the reasons for your actions and steps you have taken to manage the situation.
Formal letter(s) of explanation to the employers impacted by the renege to explain the reasons for your actions. The letters will be written professionally and delivered promptly.







            Salary Negotiation Best Practices
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            What should I expect when I receive an offer?
                    








            when will I get an offer
          


Typically, when you receive an offer, you will be expected to accept or reject the offer within a specified amount of time. Do not feel obligated to accept or reject on the spot, even if you feel pressure to do so!
To protect yourself and ensure the company is serious about you, it’s important to get the offer in writing in a formal offer letter or email. You should expect an offer in writing and ask for it if they don’t automatically give it to you.
A legitimate offer will never involve asking you for any form of payment. You do not need to provide your bank information or social security number in order to receive an offer.








                            How do I know if I should negotiate the salary offered to me?
                    








            how do I know
          


When an employer makes an offer, you will need to determine first whether you want the job.
If you decide you want to accept the job, then decide whether you want to negotiate the pay and/or benefits. Ask yourself: “What factors are important to me as I decide if this is a good opportunity for me right now?”
When a student negotiates, employers look at what the student brings to the table, including grades, projects, internships and engineering or non-engineering work experience.








                            What if I need more time to decide to accept or not?
                    








            what if I need more time
          


If you need some time to consider an employer’s offer, you must ask for their deadline to get back to them with your answer.
It’s okay to ask for more time to make your decision if you need more time.

Sample script to ask for a deadline extension:
“Thank you for extending this offer to me. In order to make an informed decision, I would like to have an additional [# OF DAYS] days to review and consider your offer. Would you be able to extend the offer until [DATE]?”

Once you and the employer agree on a deadline, you must get back to them with an answer by that date.
If you have questions about the offer, ask those questions as soon as possible. Try not to wait until the night before the deadline to ask them.
NOTE: UIC does not impose any guidelines on employers regarding offer deadlines.








                            If I decide to negotiate, how do I do it?
                    








            How do I decide?
          


Create your list of reasons why you are asking for more money, back-up with documentation
Know the market rate for your skills in the industry and location (find at least 3 resources to confirm it)
Communicate your needs before the deadline given by the employer
Most employers will need to get back to you with an answer; they need time to think too
Ask if they have any flexibility. Provide your ideal salary as a fixed number, not a range. We recommend asking for no more than 5-10% more than the original offer.
If additional salary is not possible, what else is negotiable?
Do not negotiate a salary via email. Instead, call the employer on the phone. While it may be difficult to have this conversation over the phone, it will indicate to the employer that you’re interested in them and that you possess a high degree of professionalism.
Practice negotiating over the phone (and not in the same room) with someone who can provide honest and useful criticism. Your ECC career coaches can help with this! Click here to make an appointment.








                            When I receive an offer, what do I do about other offers I have pending?
                    








            What do I do with other pending offers?
          


When you’ve received an offer, and before you accept it, you can tell the other employers you’ve been interviewing with (including phone interviews!) that you have a job offer and the deadline for accepting, but you’re not obligated to disclose any more details, especially the offer amount. You should do this even if you’re not in the final stages of those other interviews; letting the other companies know that you have an offer could potentially make those companies move quicker if they might want to hire you.
If you are considering multiple offers at once, congratulations! Consider your values and weigh the pros and cons of each offer to make your decision. It’s not always just about the money.
Remember that you can always ask the company for a deadline extension if you need more time to consider.








                            What if I'm still unsure or have other questions about negotiations?
                    








            Still have Questions
          

We get it — this stuff is hard! Your ECC career coaches are here to help! Click here to make an appointment.










Emailing your recruiter?
Tips for writing a professional email








Career Tools


Back to main content









Resume 

Cover Letter 

Searching 

Professional Introduction & Networking 

LinkedIn 

Interviewing 

Following Up & Thank You Messages 

Understanding Salaries 

Managing Offers 

Book an Appointment 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












