 












                            Book an Appointment | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Career Tools


Book an Appointment






Book an Appointment
The Engineering Career Center is providing virtual and in-person advising services. To request an appointment, please:

Request an appointment on Handshake: scroll down to view the instructions for scheduling appointments via Handshake.
Per ECC policy, a student may book only one appointment per week.
Alumni can still make appointments up to 3 years after graduation.
For Quick Questions that can be handled over email, please email one of us.
Click here for information about our Drop-In Hours (during the semester only)
Our website has wonderful resources available 24/7, so please take advantage! Find job search boards online, tips for LinkedIn, practice interview questions, and more in the “Career Tools” tab.

ECC staff will continue to wear masks when meeting with students in person. All students are recommended and requested to wear a mask when visiting the Engineering Career Center, regardless of vaccination status. Masks should be tight-fitting and cover both the mouth and nose. Read more about UIC's COVID Safety guidance here.






            Handshake How-to
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            How to Request an Appointment on Handshake
                    








            Handshake
          

Follow these steps to schedule your advising appointment:

Log into Handshake. If you have never logged in before, you will need to claim your account by logging in with your UIC nedID and password. Click here for instructions on how to claim your account and log in for the first time.

After logging in, you may be directed to complete your Handshake profile first. To bypass this, click the Handshake logo in the top left-hand corner to get to the Handshake homepage.


On the Handshake homepage, click “Career Center” in the top right-hand corner.
Click “Appointments” and follow the rest of the on-screen instructions to schedule your appointment!

If you follow these instructions and continue to have issues with appointment scheduling, review this Handshake support article and contact Jonna McHugh at jonnac@uic.edu.







                            Need a Resume Review? Submit your Resume online
                    








            Online Resume Submission Form
          

Students: Looking for an online resume review? The ECC team can review your resume and receive direct feedback!
Submit your resume here
* Please note this service is only available to current UIC Engineering students and UIC Engineering alumni three years post-graduation*
 











Book an Appointment on Handshake





Need support for your well-being?








Career Tools


Back to main content









Resume 

Cover Letter 

Searching 

Professional Introduction & Networking 

LinkedIn 

Interviewing 

Following Up & Thank You Messages 

Understanding Salaries 

Managing Offers 

Book an Appointment 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












