 












                            International Students | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Students


International Students






International Students
The Engineering Career Center (ECC) is dedicated to supporting international students with their job and/or internship search. Below you will find resources to assist you with the internship and job search.
If you are an international student and you are considering participating in an internship opportunity, please reach out to the Office of International Services for guidance regarding working off-campus. The Engineering Career Center is no longer able to process CPT applications at this time.
The Engineering Career Center also DOES NOT process Optional Practical Training (OPT) applications for full-time employment. If you have obtained a full-time position, and need help with your OPT application, please visit with the Office of International Students (OIS) at UIC.




Need Help?
Schedule An Advising Appointment





            Career Resources for International Students
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Ultimate H1B Sponsor Checker
                    

                Install this Chrome extension which tells you how likely a company is to offer visa sponsorship.
            









                            MyVisaJobs.com
                    

                Search this database of companies that sponsor H1B visas
            









                            UniWorld Online
                    

                Find companies with offices around the globe
            









                            Employers who hire UIC Engineering Students
                    

                Check out this list of employers who have hired UIC Engineering students in the past. Pro tip: filter for "F1/H1B"
            









                            Handshake
                    

                Search jobs and internships posted by companies who are specifically seeking UIC students!
            









                            ECC Career Tools
                    

                The ECC has curated a list of online tools to help you write your resume, prepare for interviews, and much more!
            









                            Engineering Student Organizations
                    

                Join student organizations to meet peers and potential employers.
            









                            Identity-Based Resources
                    

                Resources related to your careers and your identity
            










            Job Search Advice from UIC International Alumni and the ECC
          Heading link



 
Copy link





Apply Online

Apply for LOTS of jobs/internships online (hundreds). You can use Handshake, LinkedIn, Indeed, Google Jobs, and other job boards.



Networking

Developing a professional network of people in your desired industry is very important in the US! Many jobs are never posted, but are obtained through networking. View the ECC’s networking guide here.



Complete your Profile

Complete profiles on Handshake and LinkedIn to increase the chances of a recruiter reaching out to you about a job.



Attend Events

Attend on-campus career fairs and look for off-campus events to attend as well.



Work Authorization

Learn the differences between CPT, pre-completion OPT, and OPT. Please visit the Office of International Services for more information.



Connect with Alumni

Find and connect with UIC alumni on LinkedIn and Handshake to find out where they have interned and where they work now. Then network with them!









            Testimonial
          Heading link



 
Copy link








I did my Master’s in Industrial Engineering. After graduating I was searching for a job but it was difficult out there. I was not able to get the desired outcome as needed. I knew something was going wrong in my job search.
That’s when ECC came in. I took serious efforts in improving my resume, interview skills, etc., and the ECC helped me a lot. When I was a student I hardly visited them, but as an alum, I started visiting them regularly. They were very helpful. They helped me a lot by giving me job search tips, conducting mock interviews, and preparing me for opportunities. I started getting more and more interview calls, and finally I landed a job.
I would advise all the current students to start seeking help from the ECC from early on so that you are ready for the opportunity when it knocks your door. I would again like to THANK the ECC for helping me out. Thank you.



  Vinit Shah
  
               | 
              
  MS Industrial Engineering Alum
  











Students/Alum


Back to main content









Search Handshake 

Employment Outcomes 

International Students 

Your Identity at Work 

Student Organizations 

UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections 

Freshman Internship Program (GPIP) 

Transfer Internship Program (GPIP) 

Services for Alumni 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












