 












                            Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Transfer Students | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Students


Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Transfer Students






Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) for Transfer Students






            Requirements for Guaranteed Transfer Internship Program
          Heading link



 
Copy link






UIC offers a unique opportunity to transfer engineering students. Conceived of and supported by the faculty and the dean of the College of Engineering, the Transfer Guaranteed Paid Internship Program (GPIP) gives incoming fall transfer students the opportunity to serve as paid interns during the summer months, providing they meet certain criteria.
Who is Eligible for GPIP?
Transfer Engineering and Computer Science students who are admitted into the College of Engineering in the Fall of the academic year.
The GPIP application for the 2022-2023 academic year is now available until November 17, 2022. Only new transfer and freshman students starting in the fall are eligible to apply.
 






            Requirements for Guaranteed Transfer Internship Program
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Eligibility Requirements
                    








            steps
          


Attended UIC Engineering for at least two semesters full‐time and completed at least 20 semester hours of UIC Engineering courses.
Complete certain courses that are required for your major.
Maintain an overall UIC GPA of at least 3.2.
Be a U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or obtain permission to work legally in the United States by May 1 of the year of your summer internship.
Transfer directly into the UIC College of Engineering; unfortunately intercollege transfer students are not eligible.
If a transfer student participates in an off-campus internship, which they secured on their own, they will not be placed by GPIP.
Complete mandatory questionnaires as well as deadlines that will occur throughout the academic year(s). This involves responding to emails from GPIP administrators in a timely fashion.








                            What classes are students required to take?
                    








            classes
          


Students are required to complete courses in their major prior to being placed in a GPIP internship. For many students this will take more than one full academic year

Required courses by major to qualify for guaranteed internship







                            When do transfer students apply for the program?
                    








            when
          


Transfer students must apply their very first semester in the College of Engineering. This is the only opportunity to join the GPIP program.
Students will be notified by email when the GPIP program is made available to join.








                            When and where are transfer students placed for internships?
                    








            when
          


Transfer students who qualify are provided a placement the summer prior to their expected graduation date.
Placements occur on campus in research labs or at other UIC entities.
If a transfer student participates in an off-campus internship, which they secured on their own, they will not be placed by GPIP.








                            Compensation and Work Hours
                    








            compensation
          


Transfer students who are placed in UIC research labs or other entities on campus will earn $15/hour.
GPIP interns may work total of 256 hours during the course of their internship. Students cannot accrue overtime, so, you cannot work more than 8 hours in one day, or more than 40 hours in one week. It is up to the student and professor/supervisor to track the total number of hours worked and not exceed 256 for the summer.








                            Contact for Questions
                    








            Contact
          

Still have questions about GPIP for Transfer students?
Please contact:
Rose Coppola-Conroy, Director of the Engineering Career Center
Office: SEO 800
Phone: 312-355-5174
Email: rcconroy@uic.edu














Students/Alum


Back to main content









Search Handshake 

Employment Outcomes 

International Students 

Your Identity at Work 

Student Organizations 

UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections 

Freshman Internship Program (GPIP) 

Transfer Internship Program (GPIP) 

Services for Alumni 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












