 












                            Engagement Opportunities | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Employers


Engagement Opportunities






Engagement Opportunities
Ignite a Career. Engineer the Future.
Thank you for thinking of UIC engineering students! We look forward to working with you.
As your partner in maximizing engineering recruitment and branding opportunities, we are your resource to help make your company a top choice for UIC College of Engineering students. Our staff consists of professionals with various backgrounds in business, higher education and recruitment. We want to make it easy for you to have access to UIC's population of more than 5,000 engineering students.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic: we are navigating the resumption of in-person events and offering a mix of virtual and in-person events as of the Spring 2022 semester We will continue to update this page as things change.
Fall 2020 Engineering Majors & Enrollment
Check out the engagement opportunities below and contact us anytime for help arranging your recruitment event.
 





            Engagement
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Career Fairs
                    

                Register for the Engineering & Computer Science Career Fair
            












                            Post a Position
                    

                Post your openings, create resume books and review student profiles.  Watch our quick videos to get started
            












                            Pop-Ups
                    

                Promote your organization for a few hours in a high traffic area on campus, targeting your preferred majors
            












                            On-Campus Interviews
                    

                We can provide you space to interview students and alumni throughout the year
            












                            Company Tours
                    

                Host a group of UIC engineering students for a company tour to give them a feel 
of your work environment
            












                            Info Sessions
                    

                Provide an overview of your company to targeted engineering majors and student organizations.
            












                            Presentations
                    

                Help students prepare for their careers by sharing advice in a workshop setting while promoting your company too
            












                            Alumni Mentoring
                    

                If you are a UIC engineering alum, you can give back by passing on any industry knowledge and advice
            












                            Meet with Us
                    

                Help us understand your hiring needs by meeting with us. We can meet on our turf or yours
            










            Employer Testimonial
          Heading link



 
Copy link








“We had such a positive experience working with your Engineering Career Center. You were able to assist us in spreading the word about an entry level opportunity we had for a Mechanical Engineer to your graduates and we immediately had highly qualified candidates contact us who had the right credentials our client needed. We were able to successfully place one graduate within only a couple of weeks and hope to place the other candidates soon. We can’t thank you enough for your efforts and hope this is just the beginning of a mutually beneficial partnership!”



  Wendy Whelton Pindar
  
               | 
              
  Technical Recruiter - Sterling Engineering
  











Employers


Back to main content









Engagement Opportunities 

Post Positions on Handshake 

2019 Employment Outcomes 

Career Fair Information for Employers 

UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring 

Senior Design Expo 

Hiring International Students 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












