 












                            Career Fairs | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Employers


Career Fairs






Career Fairs
Gain access to over 5,000 engineering students within the UIC College of Engineering at our Engineering & Computer Science Career Fair! Come to UIC to recruit from all of our engineering and computer science majors and connect with top talent in Chicago.





            Spring 2023 Semester Career Fair Dates
          Heading link



 
Copy link








In-Person Technology Career Fair
In-Person Engineering Career Fair





            Date
          

            Wednesday, February 15, 2023
          

            Thursday, February 16, 2023
          



            Time
          

            12-4:30pm CDT
          

            12-4:30pm CDT
          



            Location
          

            UIC Forum, 725 W. Roosevelt Rd., Chicago, IL 60607
          

            UIC Forum, 725 W. Roosevelt Rd., Chicago, IL 60607
          



            Majors
          

            Focused on Computer Science, but all Engineering* majors welcome
          

            Focused on Engineering* majors, but Computer Science-related majors welcome too
          



            Recruitment Type
          

            Interns, Co-ops, and Full-Time
          

            Interns, Co-ops, and Full-Time
          









            majors
          Heading link



 
Copy link



*Engineering majors offered at UIC are: Biomedical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Computer Science + Design, Computer Science + Linguistics, Data Science, Electrical Engineering, Engineering Physics, Engineering Management, Environmental Engineering, Construction Management, Industrial Engineering, Materials Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering.




Registration
Available December 6, 2022






            Career Fair Information
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            About
                    








            About
          

The Engineering and Computer Science Career Fair is one of the largest career fairs at UIC. Previous Engineering and Computer Science Career Fairs have drawn more than 150 companies and 2,000 students to the career fair.
It is a wonderful opportunity for employers to recruit entry-level full-time engineers as well as summer interns, co-op students, or even part-time positions or contract positions.
 







                            Career Fair Schedule and Platform
                    








            Schedule
          

Schedule for Spring 2023 Career Fair Days: 
February 15 (In-Person)
Time: 12pm-4:30pm
UIC Forum, 725 W. Roosevelt Rd, Chicago, IL 60607
Majors: Computer Science-related majors
February 16 (In-Person)
Time: 12pm-4:30pm (Central Time, USA)
UIC Forum, 725 W. Roosevelt Rd, Chicago, IL 60607
Majors: All other Engineering majors
Both days are for Internship and Full-Time Recruitment.

Majors: All engineering majors can attend both days of the career fair. Engineering majors offered at UIC are: Biomedical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Computer Science + Design, Computer Science + Linguistics, Data Science, Electrical Engineering, Engineering Physics, Engineering Management, Environmental Engineering, Construction Management, Industrial Engineering, Materials Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering.







                            Career Fair Contact Information
                    








            Contact
          

If you have any questions related to the Engineering and Computer Science Career Fair, please contact:

Rose Coppola-Conroy, Director

rcconroy@uic.edu
312-355-5174



 







                            Registration Dates, Deadlines, and Payment Information
                    








            Payment
          

Registration Information:

Registration for the Spring 2023 Technology & Engineering Career Fair launches 12/6/22. Registration for both days is done through Handshake. Separate registration is required if you would like to attend both days.
Once your company has registered for the fair on Handshake, you will receive an invoice that directs you to UIC’s internal payment system to pay the registration fee.
Your fair registration in Handshake will be approved after the Engineering Career Center has received your payment.
If your company is paying by check, the Engineering Career Center requires proof that your payment is in progress before approving your Handshake registration. Please contact Rose Coppola-Conroy if you have any questions about check payment.

Career Fair Pricing: 
Company:

One day only: $600
Both days: $1200

Government/Military:

One day only: $400
Both days: $800

Non-Profit

One day only: $250
Both days: $500

Small Companies of <50 total employees: Please contact a member of the Engineering Career Center Team to discuss recruitment options.
Refund fee: $50
Each Additional Representative: $50
Additional Table (includes two representatives): $150
Payment:
Credit card and check payments are accepted for the Career Fair. Please make checks payable to: University of Illinois Chicago and send to:
University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC)
Engineering Career Center
Attn: Rose Coppola-Conroy
851 S. Morgan St., Rm 800 SEO
Chicago, IL 60607







                            Marketing Opportunities: Weekly Emails, Newsletter Features
                    








            ads
          

Spring 2023 Marketing Option: $200

Company logo in weekly newsletter and other fair marketing materials
Up to 4 issues of weekly newsletter depending on time of payment
Logo on Handshake landing page for student registration

 
Payment must be received before ads can be implemented.
For additional questions about marketing opportunities during the career fair, please contact Rose Coppola-Conroy.







                            On-Campus Interviews
                    








            OCI
          


On-campus interviews will be scheduled throughout late February and March 2023. Dates will be mutually agreed upon by the employer and the Engineering Career Center.
Cost: $100, which includes one interview room, parking, and wifi. This can be paid for when completing your career fair registration. Please contact us if you would like more than one interview room.








                            Cancellation & Refund Policy
                    








            Refund policy
          

Career Fair Registration: A full refund will be provided if a cancellation is received on or before Wednesday, February 1, 2023 at 5pm. All registrations become final after this date. We cannot accommodate refunds for companies that decide on the day of the fair not to attend (no-show). A $50 fee with be assessed for all refunds issued.
Marketing Opportunities: A full refund will be provided for cancellations received on or before Wednesday, February 1, 2023 at 5pm. Refunds can only be issued for ads that are not already implemented. A $50 fee with be assessed for all refunds issued.
No refunds will be issued for cancellations caused by events that are outside of our control.












            Tips for Employers - In-Person Fair
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Shipping materials to UIC
                    








            coming soon
          

Ship supplies, materials, banners, etc., to the UIC Engineering Career Center before the event. Your containers and boxes need to be received no later than 12:00 p.m. on Friday, February 10, 2023. All materials will be transported to the UIC Forum on Monday, February 12. Please do not send any materials directly to the UIC Forum.
Shipping address:
Attn: Rose Coppola-Conroy, Director
UIC Engineering Career Center (M/C 159)
851 S. Morgan Street, Room 800
Chicago IL 60607-7043
Email: rcconroy@uic.edu
Phone: (312) 355-5174
 
RETURN SHIPPING: FedEx and UPS
If you plan to leave your containers and boxes at UIC to be shipped after the event, please follow these steps:

Complete and attach prepaid mailing paperwork to the items to be shipped
Securely pack and clearly label items
Bring items to the employer check-in table at the back of the fair. We have student volunteers who can assist.
Make arrangements with FedEx or UPS to have your containers and boxes picked up during the week of February 20, 2023.

Pick Up Address:
Attn: Rose Coppola-Conroy, Director
UIC Engineering Career Center (M/C 159)
851 S. Morgan Street, Room 800
Chicago IL 60607-7043
Email: rcconroy@uic.edu
Phone: (312) 355-5174







                            COVID-19
                    








            covid
          

Although the threat of the pandemic is reduced, COVID-19 still presents a risk to our community. Therefore, it is strongly recommended to wear a mask over your nose and mouth during this event. Shaking hands is discouraged; please try alternate forms of greeting instead.
We will have disposable masks on hand if you need one. Hand sanitizer will be available at various stations throughout the event space.














Employers


Back to main content









Engagement Opportunities 

Post Positions on Handshake 

2019 Employment Outcomes 

Career Fair Information for Employers 

UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring 

Senior Design Expo 

Hiring International Students 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












