 












                            Hiring International Students | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Employers


Hiring International Students






Hiring International Students
Organizations today are connected globally, and those who hire international students have a competitive advantage. International students bring great value to any organization and contribute to its success in many ways. International Engineering and Computer Science students in particular help increase the talent pool in an in-demand labor market.
There are misconceptions about hiring international students. In reality, it is not much different than hiring a U.S. Citizen. The information provided below can help to clarify the aspects of hiring international students.






            CPT & OPT
          Heading link



 
Copy link







International students are authorized by the USCIS (United States Citizenship and Immigration Services) to work under CPT (Curricular Practical Training) for internships during during the course of their studies and OPT (Optional Practical Training) for internships and jobs after completion of their degrees.
In terms of process and cost, students own the responsibility of completing the paperwork and submitting it to the appropriate authority. In CPT and OPT cases, employers do have to provide some details about how their positions will train students in their field of study.
There is no need for employers to apply for or sponsor any visas during CPT and OPT periods.







            International Hiring FAQs
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Internship Hiring
                    








            Internships
          


International students do not require visa sponsorship to participate in U.S.-based internships.
International students who are enrolled full-time in degree-seeking programs are eligible to work in internships off-campus after their first year of completed UIC coursework on an F-1 visa.

Exception: Undergraduate and graduate students who are on academic probation may not apply for CPT during the academic year, but they may apply for CPT for a summer internship.


Work authorization for CPT is issued/sponsored by UIC.
Hiring an international student for an internship through CPT requires the employer to complete an online form as part of the student’s CPT application. The only other requirement from the employer is to fill out a brief evaluation of the intern’s performance at the end of their internship.
There are no costs associated with CPT for the employer when hiring an international student for an internship through CPT.
Students apply for CPT in conjunction with their academic department and the UIC Office of International Services.

Full-time vs. Part-time:

International students can work full-time (40 hours per week) during the summer months on internships.
International students can work part-time (20 hours per week) during the academic year.








                            Full-Time Hiring
                    








            Full time
          


International students have at least 12 months of U.S. work authorization after graduation once they have applied for Optional Practical Training (OPT).
STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) students are eligible for 24 month OPT extensions.
The STEM extensions allow international students to work for up to 36 months (3 years) upon completion of their degree.
During the OPT and STEM extension periods, employers do not need to provide visa sponsorship.
International students are responsible for completing most of the necessary OPT paperwork.
There are no extra costs for the employer who hires an international student on OPT.
Students apply for OPT through the UIC Office of International Services.








                            Advantages of Hiring International Students
                    








            Advantages
          


New perspectives and problem solving skills.
Motivated, adaptable, and have demonstrated perseverance.
Courage to tackle the unknown and excel in diverse workplaces.
Proficient in foreign languages and have knowledge of the markets, business practices, and cultures of other countries.








                            UIC Resources
                    








            Resources
          

We welcome any employer to contact the UIC Engineering Career Center at any time with questions about how to hire an international student for an internship or full-time position.
In addition to the Engineering Career Center, at UIC we also have a dedicated Office of International Services (OIS) that provides an array of essential services and programs to assist international students:

OIS provides immigration rules and regulations counseling and advising to international students, faculty, staff and scholars.
OIS facilitates the transition of international students, faculty, staff and scholars to life at UIC and the U.S. by providing continuous services aimed at assisting in the transition to UIC.
OIS provides regular service hours, walk-in hours, and OPT workshops to UIC international students. 

Please encourage UIC students you are interested in hiring to visit the OIS website for additional information.














Employers


Back to main content









Engagement Opportunities 

Post Positions on Handshake 

2019 Employment Outcomes 

Career Fair Information for Employers 

UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring 

Senior Design Expo 

Hiring International Students 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












