 












                            College of Engineering Job & Internship Fair | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Engineering Career Center


Events


College of Engineering Job & Internship Fair






College of Engineering Job & Internship Fair





            Thank you for attending the Fall 2022 Engineering & CS Job and Internship Fair! Stay tuned for the next one coming in February 2023.
          Heading link



 
Copy link








In-Person Engineering & Computer Science Job and Internship Fair	
Virtual Engineering & Computer Science Job and Internship Fair





            Date
          

            Tuesday, September 13, 2022	
          

            Friday, September 23, 2022

          



            Time
          

            12-4:30pm CDT	
          

            12-4:30pm CDT	
          



            Location
          

            UIC Forum, 725 W. Roosevelt Rd., Chicago, IL 60607	
          

            Virtual on Handshake
          



            Who's invited?
          

            UIC College of Engineering: current students and alumni
          

            UIC College of Engineering: current students and alumni
          



            Majors
          

            All Engineering and Computer Science majors
          

            All Engineering and Computer Science majors
          



            Job Type
          

            Internships, Co-ops, and Full-Time Jobs
          

            Internships, Co-ops, and Full-Time Jobs
          



            Recommended Clothing
          

            Professional Dress: suits, ties, dresses, skirts, dress slacks, dress shoes, and blazers
          

            Business casual: Wear collared shirts and blouses. Refrain from wearing t-shirts, tank tops, and hoodies
          



            Additional info
          

            Masks are strongly recommended. Bring printed copies of your resume.
          

            Must register for group or individual sessions with employers via Handshake
          







Employers who attended
the In-Person and Virtual Job & Internship Fairs




Introduce yourself
to employers with this guide!




Employer?
Visit our Employer Page






            Accomodation
          Heading link



 
Copy link



If you require an accommodation in order to participate in the career fair, please contact Jonna McHugh.




Student Guide:
Virtual Handshake Career Fair






            How to Prepare for a Virtual Job and Internship Fair
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Create a Handshake Profile and Upload Your Resume
                    








            Profile
          

UIC students will be required to claim their Handshake account in order to register for the virtual career fair. Claiming your account is as simple as logging in to Handshake using your UIC netID and password.
Complete your profile on Handshake and upload your resume. Make sure you select your preferred resume to be “featured/visible on profile” so employers can access it during the virtual fair. To help expedite your profile completion, consider building your profile from your resume.
Many employers attending the career fair will already have positions posted on Handshake. Once you’ve uploaded your resume to Handshake, applying for open jobs couldn’t be easier!







                            How to Register for Virtual Fair and Sign Up for Sessions
                    








            Register Fair
          

In order to meet with employers during the virtual job and internship fair, students must:

Register for the career fair AND
Sign-up for 1:1 sessions and/or group sessions

Virtual job and internship fair registration will open for UIC students and alumni in September 2022.
Instructions on how to register for the career fair
Instructions on how to sign-up for 1:1 and group sessions
Some Helpful Tips:

The virtual fair will be hosted in United States Central Time Zone. Please adjust accordingly.
Do not be late for sessions. You will not be able to join a session once it has started.
You cannot sign up for sessions that overlap.
You will be able to log into Handshake 5 minutes prior to your registered sessions to test your audio and video in Handshake.
Employers will continue to add 1:1 session availability and group sessions up until the day of the fair. Continue to check back with employers you are interested in to see if they have added new sessions and make sure to register for them as soon as you see them.
Have a copy of your resume handy, in case the employer has difficulty accessing your resume through Handshake.








                            Preparation is Key: What to do Before the Event
                    








            Before
          

Get your resume looking polished and presentable

Your resume should be neatly formatted and include relevant engineering content. See example engineering resumes here.
Schedule a 1:1 advising appointment.

Research the employers you plan on meeting

Employers appreciate when you know about their business and their open positions: do your research!
Besides visiting company websites, check Handshake, LinkedIn, Glassdoor and news articles or blog posts to find up-to-date information on the companies you are interested in speaking with.
The more you know about your target employers, the more confidence you will have when meeting them at the fair!
If possible, apply to positions on Handshake before attending the fair. Employers will be impressed with your proactiveness!

Prepare an elevator pitch

An elevator pitch (30-45 seconds long) is what you say when introducing yourself to an employer during the fair.
An elevator pitch typically includes your name, your major, year in school, and 1-2 highlights about yourself (e.g. a technical skill you know, a recent internship you had, a current project you are working on, etc.) and why you’re interested in their company.
Practicing your elevator pitch will give you confidence when meeting employers at the fair (and will also impress the employer).
Fun fact: it’s called an elevator pitch because the time it takes to introduce yourself should take take roughly the amount of time you’d spend riding an elevator with someone (only 30-60 seconds!).
Use this guide to help you develop your elevator pitch!

Present yourself professionally

Make your first impression with employers a positive one; attend the virtual career fair looking professional, neat, and tidy. Suits are not required for a virtual fair, but business casual is strongly recommended. That means collared shirts and blouses. Avoid t-shirts, tank tops, and hoodies.
Treat the virtual career fair like you would a virtual interview: try to find a quiet place where there are not a lot of distractions. Tidy up the room you are in and make sure you have good lighting before you turn your camera on.








                            During: Navigating the Event
                    








            During
          

What should I say to the employer?

Stand out in a positive way by sharing a memorable story in your elevator pitch (see previous section).
Ask questions! Employers love it when students ask questions, it shows that you are truly interested in the company.
Ask for the employer’s contact info in order to follow up with the employer. They can’t provide their email? Get their full name and connect on LinkedIn so you can follow up with them.

How should I present myself?

Employers notice how you carry yourself and your facial expressions say a lot.
Maintain professional behavior, as if you are in interview mode the entire time.
Remember video chat etiquette: turn your video on and keep your microphone on mute when you are not speaking. Try to sit in a quiet place and check to make sure you have good lighting so employers can see you.








                            How to Follow-Up with Employers After the Event
                    








            after
          

Follow up with employers after you attend the job and internship fair. This is arguably the most important step.

Use the contacts you collected and follow up with your target employers over email or through LinkedIn.
A brief email or personalized LinkedIn invite shows the employer your strong interest level in them.
Here are some tips on writing a follow-up thank you note.
Be patient. Employers/Recruiters are busy and will get back to you if they are interested.













            How to Prepare for an In-Person Job and Internship Fair
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            What should I bring?
                    








            bring
          

Never been to an in-person career fair or recruitment event before? Don’t worry, we’ve got you covered!
Students must bring:

At least 10 printed copies of your resume to hand out to employers. Printers will not be available onsite.
Pen and paper for taking notes during your conversations with employers. A padfolio works well for this.
Your smartphone for accessing the event app. The app contains the list of employers and a floor map showing where they are located. The app will be available for download in the App Store and Google Play shortly before the event. If you do not have a smartphone, limited printed lists and maps will be available at the front check-in.

Note: There will be a room where you can leave your coat and backpack (leave items at your own risk).







                            Preparation is Key: What to do Before the Event
                    








            before fair
          

Get your resume looking polished and presentable

Your resume should be neatly formatted and include relevant engineering content. See example engineering resumes here.
Schedule a 1:1 advising appointment on Handshake.
Students must bring printed copies of your resume! There will not be any printers onsite. Bring 10+ copies to give out to employers. Keep them in a folder or padfolio.

Research the employers you plan on meeting

Employers appreciate when you know about their business and their open positions: do your research!
Besides visiting company websites, check Handshake, LinkedIn, Glassdoor and news articles or blog posts to find up-to-date information on the companies you are interested in speaking with.
The more you know about your target employers, the more confidence you will have when meeting them at the career fair!

Prepare an elevator pitch

An elevator pitch (30-45 seconds long) is what you say when introducing yourself to an employer during the event.
An elevator pitch typically includes your name, your major, year in school, and 1-2 highlights about yourself (e.g. a technical skill you know, a recent internship you had, a current project you are working on, etc.) and why you’re interested in their company.
Practicing your elevator pitch will give you confidence when meeting employers at the fair (and will also impress the employer).
Fun fact: it’s called an elevator pitch because the time it takes to introduce yourself should take take roughly the amount of time you’d spend riding an elevator with someone (only 30-60 seconds!).
Use this guide to help you develop your elevator pitch!

Present yourself professionally

Make your first impression with employers a positive one; attend the event looking professional, neat, and well-groomed.
Professional attire (such as suits, dresses, skirts, dress slacks, dress shoes, and blazers) is recommended. If you do not own professional attire, discount stores such as TJ Maxx or Marshalls often have great and cost-effective options.
Personal hygiene is important. All attendees must look and smell clean.
Treat the event like a job interview. Show enthusiasm for the company and use your time with each employer wisely. Maintain professional behavior at all times.








                            During: Navigating the Event
                    








            during
          

What should I say to the employer?

State your name clearly. Stand out in a positive way by sharing a memorable story in your elevator pitch (see “Preparation is Key” section).
Ask questions! Employers appreciate when students ask questions because it shows that you are truly interested in the company.
Ask for the employer’s contact info in order to follow up with the employer. They can’t provide their email? Write down their full name and connect on LinkedIn so you can follow up with them.

How should I present myself?

Employers notice how you carry yourself and your facial expressions say a lot.
Maintain professional behavior, as if you are in interview mode the entire time.








                            How to Follow-Up with Employers After the Event
                    








            after
          

Follow up with employers after you attend the career fair. This is arguably the most important step.

Use the contacts you collected and follow up with your target employers through email or LinkedIn.
A brief email or personalized LinkedIn invite shows the employer your strong interest level in them.
Here are some tips on writing a follow-up thank you note.
Be patient. Employers/Recruiters are busy and will get back to you if they are interested.













            Recruiter Tips for Students Attending Career Fairs
          Heading link



 
Copy link




















Events


Back to main content









Upcoming Events 

Job Fair Information for Students 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












