 












                            Meet the Staff | Engineering Career Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Engineering Career Center

Main Menu




        Home
      


Expand Home menu











                  College of Engineering
                




                  Engineering Alumni
                




                  Office of International Services
                




                  Student Employment Office (campus jobs)
                




                  Career Services
                




                  Counseling Center
                









        The Spark
      


Expand The Spark menu











                  The Spark - ECC Weekly Newsletter
                




                  The Spark Archives
                









        Career Tools
      


Expand Career Tools menu











                  Resume
                




                  Cover Letter
                




                  Searching
                




                  Professional Introduction & Networking
                




                  LinkedIn
                




                  Interviewing
                




                  Following Up & Thank You Messages
                




                  Understanding Salaries
                




                  Managing Offers
                




                  Book an Appointment
                









        Students/Alum
      


Expand Students/Alum menu











                  Search Handshake
                




                  Employment Outcomes
                




                  International Students
                




                  Your Identity at Work
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  UIC Connected – Build Professional Connections
                




                  Freshman Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Transfer Internship Program (GPIP)
                




                  Services for Alumni
                









        Employers
      


Expand Employers menu











                  Engagement Opportunities
                




                  Post Positions on Handshake
                




                  2019 Employment Outcomes
                




                  Career Fair Information for Employers
                




                  UIC Connected – Alumni Mentoring
                




                  Senior Design Expo
                




                  Hiring International Students
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Job Fair Information for Students
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Meet the Staff
                




                  ECC Info
                




                  Book an Appointment
                








Eyebrow menu


Search Handshake


Student Employment Office


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering Career Center
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Meet the Staff






            Rose Coppola-Conroy | Director
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Rose Coppola-Conroy | Director
800D SEO | 312-355-5174 | rcconroy@uic.edu
Rose’s LinkedIn
Pronouns: She/her
Rose started her UIC career in 2014 as an assistant director in the ECC and became the director in 2016. Prior to UIC, Rose was a career advisor and full-time faculty member teaching career management courses at another university. Rose is continually excited to help students launch meaningful careers, as well as help employers to connect with our talented engineering students. When she’s not working, Rose likes to hang out with family and friends, try new recipes and explore her neighborhood on her bike.









            Jonna McHugh | Assistant Director
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Jonna (Cottrell) McHugh | Assistant Director
800F SEO | 312-413-3873 | jonnac@uic.edu
Jonna’s LinkedIn
Pronouns: She/her
Jonna advises students of all Engineering & CS majors who come to the ECC seeking tips on career-related topics. She also works with employers who actively recruit students at UIC and helps the ECC team plan events like career fairs, career skills workshops, and employer information sessions. In addition to working in the ECC, she is currently a graduate student obtaining her M.Ed. in the College of Education at UIC. Jonna has obtained most of her jobs through networking and enjoys teaching students about this useful topic. Her experience prior to working with the ECC includes a career as a recruiter and as a paralegal in an immigration law firm. She loves riding her bike along Lake Michigan in the summer and baking or curling up with a good book in the winter.









            Alejandra Salas | ECC Peer Mentor
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Alejandra Salas | Career Advisor
Pronouns: She/her
800 A SEO | 312-355-5142 | asalas9@uic.edu
Alejandra is a Mexican-American first generation student, who graduated from the University of Illinois at Chicago with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology and a Master’s degree in Latin American and Latino Studies. Some of her research interests are immigration, gender politics and identity in Latinx communities, women’s studies as well career development and advancement. She enjoys helping students navigate their academic and career paths while helping them become successful students. Alejandra is a former graduate student worker at the UIC Engineering Career Center with over two years of experience.  In her free time, she enjoys listening to podcasts, music and loves a good movie night!









            Jesus Ramos Flores | ECC Peer Mentor
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Jesus Ramos Flores | ECC Peer Mentor
Pronouns: He/Him
Jesus is a third year Biomedical Engineering student. He is really interested in pursuing a career in neural-prosthetics and hopes to work in a clinical/lab setting. Whenever Jesus is not busy with school work, you’ll find him playing drums, bass, listening to his metalcore playlist at full volume, playing with his dog, and being a huge Marvel nerd. He also enjoys reading sci-fi, thriller, horror, and mystery novels, and his stack of books can attest to how versatile his reading tastes are.









            Neelu Nerella | ECC Peer Mentor
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Neelu Nerella | ECC Peer Mentor
Neelu is a third-year undergraduate Computer Science student. She is interested in pursuing a career in Artificial Intelligence/Robotics and Software Development Engineering. In her free time, Neelu is usually learning new choreography to dance with her friends or cruising down the streets on her skateboard. She is also a huge Marvel fan and has an unhealthy obsession with the rain.









            Czarina Bautista | ECC Peer Mentor
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Czarina Bautista | ECC Peer Mentor
Czarina is a fourth-year Civil Engineering student. She has an interest in both structural and environmental engineering, and topics of sustainability. Czarina is passionate about helping others and enjoys giving back to the community. During her free time, she likes to bake, spend time with her family and dogs, and try new foods. Czarina also enjoys watching true crime documentaries and horror movies. Her favorite horror movie is “Insidious”. If anyone has great food or crime/horror movie recommendations, feel free to reach out to Czarina!









            Praveen Raj Veluswami | ECC Peer Mentor
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Praveen Raj Veluswami | ECC Peer Mentor
Praveen is a second-year graduate student pursuing a Masters in Computer Science at UIC. He is interested in working on impactful consumer-oriented applications. He is always ready to learn and share job searching strategies and networking skills. During his free time, you can mostly find him watching crime thriller movies or working out. Praveen is also a history and geography nerd. He loves traveling and trying out new food. His favorite cuisines are Indian and Mediterranean. Reach out to Praveen to talk about career, computer science, or just anything.







Students
Schedule an appointment














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 851 S. Morgan St. | 800 SEO | Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-8374
rcconroy@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












