 












                            Join Us | AAAN Black Tech Scholars Program | University of Illinois Chicago
                    

































































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































AAAN Black Tech Scholars Program

Main Menu




        Meet The Scholars
      




        Projects
      




        Join Us
      




        Partners
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                AAAN Black Tech Scholars Program
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Join Us



The Black Tech Scholars Program provides UIC African American undergraduate students in good academic standing with the opportunity to acquire technical and business acumen to start your own business and gain valuable hands-on experience with assigned digital projects.
Starting in September 2018, this program features an evening course, which includes opportunities to engage in real-time digital projects and events. In addition to gaining relevant technical skills that will prepare them for careers within the tech industry, scholars also learn critical leadership, entrepreneurship and life skills under the guidance of staff members and mentors who are working professionals.
Applicants must meet all of the following criteria:

Have a strong interest in learning and applying web and mobile applications
Have attended UIC Black Tech Scholars Informational Session
Have exhibited involvement and utilization of AAAN services and programs





Name (First, Last) *  RequiredUIC email *  RequiredPersonal email *  RequiredPhone NumberAddress *  RequiredCity, StateZip CodeStudent UIN *  RequiredCumulative GPA *  RequiredAcademic CollegeMajor *  RequiredGender *  Required

Male


Female


Prefer Not to Answer
Racial or Ethical Identity

African American/Black


Caucasian/White


Hispanic or Latino


Asian


Pacific Islander


Two or more races


Other
Please list the classes and credit hours you will be taking for the Fall 2018 semester. *  RequiredThe UIC Black Tech Scholars Application section includes a personal essay (250-650 characters), which will be reviewed by our selection committee.  Applicants will choose from one of the four prompts: *  Required1. Some students have a background, identity, interest, or talent that is so meaningful they believe their application would be incomplete without it. If this sounds like you, then please share your story. 

2. The lessons we take from failure can be fundamental to later success. Recount an incident or time when you experienced failure. How did it affect you, and what did you learn from the experience? 

3. Reflect on a time when you challenged a belief or idea. What prompted you to act? Would you make the same decision again? 

4. Describe a problem you have solved or a problem you would like to solve. It can be an intellectual challenge, a research query, and any ethical dilemma - anything that is of personal importance, no matter the scale. Explain its significance to you and what steps you took or could take to identify a solution.

  

























 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 Joseph Fields, Associate Director of the African American Academic Network
Phone: (312) 996-5565
jofields@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












