 












                            Bioengineering Student Journal | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.











UIC Logo






Student Organizations



Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        


















UIC Logo






Student Organizations




Bioengineering Student Journal

Main Menu




        About us
      




        Publications
      




        Editorial team
      




        Submit your paper
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Bioengineering Student Journal
              


























            Who we are
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Bioengineering Student Journal (BSJ) is a student-run journal supported by the Department of Biomedical Engineering at University of Illinois at Chicago. For over ten years, the journal has brought forward cutting-edge research focused on biomedical engineering and bioengineering. It is an open access journal that publishes quality work followed by a rigorous review process by the reviewers and the editors. The scope of the journal includes but not limited to:

Imaging: Optical, electron-beam and acoustic imaging techniques and their applications. Imaging coupled with artificial intelligence and use of imaging techniques in diagnosis of disease like cancer and Alzheimer’s disease.
Implants: Development and application of biomedical and dental implants.
Use of spectroscopic techniques, nanotechnology and nanomedicine, mathematical modeling.









            Featured Research
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Go to slide 1


Go to slide 2














Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide















Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide
















            Latest News
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            January 10, 2022 - Welcome to Spring Semester!
                    

                Tuesday, January 11, 2022
            

                Welcome back!


Happy new year. We hope you had a safe and amazing winter break. Although it's not what we expected the beginning of the semester to look like, we are looking forward to Spring 2022!
            












                            July 4, 2021 - We are rebranding with a new logo and website.
                    

                Sunday, July 4, 2021
            

                We are very happy to announce that as of July 2021, we are rebranding with a new logo and website. We believe in proper dissemination of information and also carrying our readers along…
            























UIC Logo






                Student Organizations
                



              This website is produced and managed by an official UIC student organization. The content of this site is not produced, edited, or endorsed by the university and it does not reflect the opinions of UIC administration.
            




Bioengineering Student Journal
Contact
 bsj@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












