 












                            Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society | University of Illinois Chicago
                    

























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.











UIC Logo






Student Organizations



Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        


















UIC Logo






Student Organizations




Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society

Main Menu




        Home
      




        Membership
      


Expand Membership menu











                  EMBS Resources
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Journal Club
                




                  Distinguished Lecturer
                




                  Past Events & Projects
                









        Our Podcast
      




        Officers
      


Expand Officers menu











                  Past Officers
                








Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society
              
College of Engineering 


















About Us
Welcome to the student chapter of the Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society at UIC. Open to undergraduate and graduate students, the chapter offers hands-on experience, professional preparation, and networking opportunities at the intersection of bioengineering and electrical engineering.
Interested in joining us? Explore our site by accessing our tab on the right hand side, find us on Instagram, or contact us directly at embsatuic@gmail.com or contact  and learn about our officers.
Sign up to join our mailing list here  and see current events to view/subscribe to our google calendar!








            Stay in touch:
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Calendar icon






See our current events






People Icon


 
Meet our officers and advisors








 
Get Involved










            About EMBS
          Heading link



 
Copy link









IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBS) is the world’s largest international society of biomedical engineers. The organization’s 12,000 members reside in some 97 countries around the world. EMBS provides its members with access to the people, practices, information, ideas, and opinions that are shaping one of the fastest-growing fields in science.
Our members design the electrical circuits that make a pacemaker run, create the software that reads an MRI, and help develop the wireless technologies that allow patients and doctors to communicate over long distances. They’re interested in bioinformatics, biotechnology, clinical engineering, information technology, instrumentation and measurement, micro and nanotechnology, radiology, and robots. They are researchers and educators, technicians, and clinicians—biomedical engineers are the link between science and life science, creating innovations in healthcare technology for the benefit of all humanity
Source: EMBS Official Website (Check it out to delve deeper into EMBS)











            Click here for top 10 Reasons to Join EMBS
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Graduate icon








Top 10 Reasons to Join EMBS






Check icon






Become an EMBS Official Member





















UIC Logo






                Student Organizations
                



              This website is produced and managed by an official UIC student organization. The content of this site is not produced, edited, or endorsed by the university and it does not reflect the opinions of UIC administration.
            




Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society
Contact
 UIC Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society
embsatuic@gmail.com

 



Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Instagram















YouTube















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













