 















                            New to DRC? | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Disability Resource Center


Students


New to DRC?






New to DRC?
Welcome!
Please note: healthcare providers who conduct diagnostic testing may be working on a limited schedule or with limited services during the COVID-19 pandemic. If you are looking to receive services through the Disability Resource Center, we want to work to support you during this time. Please contact the DRC at (312) 413-2183 to schedule an appointment, as provisional accommodations may be available as you gather new documentation.
In order to request accommodations from the University of Illinois at Chicago Disability Resource Center (DRC), complete ALL three steps below:
1. Please complete the online Student Registration Form.   It will take a few minutes to complete.  You will need your 9 digit UIN. This form will not be reviewed until you schedule an intake appointment.
2. Schedule an intake appointment.  The intake meeting with a Disability Specialist will give you an opportunity to discuss your disability-related needs and formalize a plan for appropriate accommodations.  These meetings typically last about 60 minutes. There are two ways to schedule: by phone, or via iAdvise.
To schedule by phone, call our office at (312) 413-2183.
To schedule via iAdvise, follow these steps:

Use this link: go.uic.edu/DRCIntake and log in to navigate to the DRC page on iAdvise.  If you are taken to your home page instead, you can search for Disability Resource Center and our page will pop up.
Click the name of your DSS based on your last name and/or major.
Click the "Schedule Appointment" button
Click where it says "Disability Resource Center" then the "Intake" option that appears.
It will show your DSS’s available meeting times for the next week and a half. You can use the calendar on the left to search different weeks. Once you can choose whether you want to meet via phone or Zoom.

Please note: if you do not see a time that works for you in iAdvise, feel free to call in to the office and inquire about other options as they may be available.
We look forward to meeting you here at the Disability Resource Center!







            About Disability Documentation
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Documentation of your disability provides valuable insight into your experience. We ask students to provide documentation to register with the DRC and receive disability-related accommodations.
Documentation is one piece of the accommodation process — please do not be deterred from starting the intake process because of a lack of documentation. Disability Specialists are happy to meet and consult, or to assist you in collecting documentation if necessary.
One option is to have a licensed clinical professional complete the DRC’s Disability Verification Form.
You may also use existing documentation such as an IEP/504 plan, Psychological Evaluation or Re-Evaluation, or a note or write-up from your care provider.
Ideal documentation will contain the following information:

Current (within the last five years) disability diagnosis from a licensed clinical professional familiar with your history, e.g. a therapist, physician, social worker, or school psychologist.
Explanation of how the disability impacts the participation in courses, programs, services, or activities at the University; and
Recommendation of accommodation(s).

To upload your medical documentation, you may: 

Use our secure upload link when completing the Student Registration Form in Step 1
Use our Protected Health Information (PHI) link

If you need assistance getting your condition documented, check out our Information About Evaluation and Assessment page, and/or contact us directly for more information.














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












