 















                            How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
You can access all copies of your Letter of Accommodation and any disability documentation you have uploaded to Accommodate by logging in via the DRC website. Step by step instructions are below.






            Step-By-Step Instructions to Access LOA and Documentation (Image and Text)
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Go to slide 1


Go to slide 2


Go to slide 3


Go to slide 4


Go to slide 5














Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





1. Visit drc.uic.edu and select the “Log In To Accommodate” link












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





2. Select “Student” and log in with UIC NetID and Password












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





3. Click on "Accommodation" menu, then the "Accommodation Letters" submenu. Your LOAs will show with the latest one top.












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





4. Once you click on the LOA you can view, print, or generate a PDF of the letter.












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





5. To access your disability documentation, click the "Accommodations" menu then the "Documentation sub-menu" and you will have the option to download any documentation you have uploaded.











            Step-By-Step Instructions to Access LOA and/or Documentation (Detailed, Text Only)
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Log In to Accommodate

Visit drc.uic.edu and select the “Log In To Accommodate” link
Select “Student” and log in with UIC NetID and Password

To Access Your Letter of Accommodation:

Select ‘Accommodation’ located on the left side of the screen. Sub-categories will appear.
Choose “Accessibility Letter” subcategory
Find and select the most recent Letter of Accommodation on file (most recent will be at the top of the list).
Click on the title ‘Letter of Accommodation (LOA)’
Once open, you can download and/or print your LOA by scrolling to the bottom of the page and selecting ‘Print Letter’ or ‘Generate PDF’

To Access Disability Documentation:

Select ‘Accommodation’ located on the left side of the screen. Sub-categories will appear.
Choose “Documents” subcategory
From this page you may view or download any documentation you have uploaded to Accommodate.















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












