 















                            How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC






            Process Overview
          Heading link



 
Copy link



What to expect when scheduling in person tests:







                                At Least A Week Before The Test
                          


                                Before The Day Of Your Test
                          


                                The Day Of Your Test
                          








            Agree on the test time and date with your instructor.
          

Keep these things in mind when choosing a time and date:

The DRC Opens at 9 AM and all tests must be completed by 5 PM, including extended time
Do not schedule such that you will miss other classes







            Schedule your seat at least 72 hours before your test date (five days in advance for finals)
          

Refer to the guides below for step-by-step instructions on scheduling. Remember, the system will not allow you to schedule less than 72 hours before the test time, down to the minute.

Ex) If you have a test at 2 PM on Friday, the latest you can log in and schedule that test is 1:59 PM on Tuesday.











            The DRC will approve your test date.
          

You and your instructor will receive a confirmation email.






            Your instructor will submit a copy of the test and the Exam Proctoring Form to the DRC.
          

You do not have to complete this form, but it is a good idea to remind your instructor.










            Come to the DRC (SSB 1070) at the scheduled time and we will proctor your test!
          

It’s a good idea to arrive a little early. Remember that for Fall 21 students will be required to show their UIC Daily Pass.
Students will be provided with sanitizing wipes to clean their stations as they leave the testing area.
DRC will make all efforts to keep in person testers as socially distanced as possible; during peak times students may be seated at adjacent testing stations.
Refer to our Safety Protocols for more details.






            DRC will return your exam to your instructor for grading.
          

Great work!













            Step-By-Step Instructions to Schedule A Test (Image and Text)
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Go to slide 1


Go to slide 2


Go to slide 3


Go to slide 4


Go to slide 5


Go to slide 6


Go to slide 7














Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





1. Visit drc.uic.edu and select the “Schedule A Test (Student)” link












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





2. Select “Student” and log in with UIC NetID and Password












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





3. Click on ‘Accommodation’ located on the left side of the screen. Sub-categories will appear. Choose "Accessibility Request"












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





4. Click “Schedule Alternative Test”












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





5. Fill out the date range filter for the day that you would like to take the exam. Scroll down the page and select "Check Availability."












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





6. Select a room that is available at the time your test begins












Go to the next slide


Go to the previous slide





7. Complete the required form fields and hit submit.











            Step-By-Step Instructions to Schedule A Test (Detailed, Text Only)
          Heading link



 
Copy link



1. Visit drc.uic.edu and select the “Schedule A Test (Student)” link
2. Select “Student” and log in with UIC NetID and Password
3. Click on ‘Accommodation’ located on the left side of the screen. Sub-categories will appear. Choose “Accessibility Request”
4. Click “Schedule Alternative Test”
5. Fill out the date range filter for the day that you would like to take the exam. Scroll down the page and select “Check Availability.”
6a. Scroll through and look for the time that you need to begin your exam

Remember, testing at the DRC begins at 9:00 am and all testing must conclude by 5 pm. Please keep this in mind when scheduling, including extended time.

6b. Click on the name of the desired room.

Rooms that are full at that time will not appear in this list

7. Fill out the following information

Course Name and Number
Length (Including extended time)
Professor FIRST and LAST Name
Professor Email Address
Teaching Assistant (if applicable)
TA Email (if applicable)
Technology requested for exam
Any other note.

8. Click Submit.














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












