 















                            UIC Student Accommodation Policy | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












UIC Student Accommodation Policy
Policy Number: OAE-1100-009
Policy Title:  Student Accommodation Policy
Vice Chancellor/Associate Chancellor:
Unit Responsible for Policy: Office for Access and Equity (OAE) and Disability Resource Center (DRC)
Effective Date: 04/26/2022
Contacts: Associate Chancellor, Office for Access and Equity and Director of the DRC
Policy Statement:
The University of Illinois at Chicago (“the University” or “UIC”) is committed to full inclusion and participation of people with disabilities in all aspects of university life. The University seeks to provide an academic, social, and physical environment that makes persons with disabilities integral to the diversity of perspectives that is vital to an academic community.
The University recognizes and supports the principles set forth in federal and state laws designed to eliminate discrimination against individuals with disabilities, and to foster the integration and inclusion of individuals with disabilities into the campus community. The University is committed to making reasonable accommodation in order to provide equal opportunity to students with disabilities to the college experience.
In order to receive academic and/or campus accommodations, students are responsible to self-identify as a person with a disability and request reasonable accommodations. Students should direct their requests for reasonable accommodation to the UIC Disability Resource Center (DRC).  The DRC will complete an intake; students may be asked to provide documentation from a health care professional that indicates their disability diagnosis. All student disability information, including documentation of disability, will be kept secure and confidential by the Disability Resource Center and is not released to others at the University without the student’s express permission. Students who falsify information to a university official can be subject to disciplinary action.
During the intake process students work with an appointed DRC staff member to identify barriers to their equal access and create a plan of accommodations to remove or ameliorate these barriers. The determination and implementation of accommodations is an interactive and iterative process, meaning that during this process the DRC may seek information from appropriate University personnel regarding essential standards for courses, degree programs, and/or activities. Accommodations determined to be reasonable and appropriate will be documented on a Letter of Accommodation.
Once in receipt of a Letter of Accommodation, a student’s instructor, with the support of their college, and the Disability Resource Center as necessary, will implement accommodations as applicable in their program or course. University personnel may seek information from the DRC directly regarding how best to facilitate a student’s accommodations in their program. Similarly, the DRC may work with units on campus such as Parking Services or Campus Housing as necessary to ensure that non-academic accommodations are implemented. An official Letter of Accommodation may be created at any time during the semester, but instructors and academic programs are only obligated to implement accommodations going forward from receipt of the letter, i.e. not retroactively.
In the event that an accommodation as written is determined to be unreasonable or inappropriate for a certain course or program, efforts will be made by the DRC and the program to explore a suitable alternative reasonable accommodation where possible. Students may appeal accommodation decisions based on the DRC accommodations grievance process.
Reason for Policy: This policy reflects federal legal mandates and existing practices surrounding access for students with disabilities at public colleges and universities. This policy delineates student as well as institutional responsibility for providing students with disabilities appropriate academic accommodations at UIC.
Minority Impact Statement: The policy does not have any disproportionate or unique impact on UIC’s minority students, staff, or faculty.
Who Should Read the Policy:  All students, faculty, staff, and administrators at UIC.
Definitions:
Person with a disability: a person with an impairment that substantially limits a major life function such as (but not limited to) walking, talking, learning, hearing, or seeing. This can include individuals with mental health and chronic health conditions.
Reasonable accommodation: any adjustment, modification, or auxiliary aide or service required for a student to have equal access to the university’s programs and activities, inside or outside the classroom.
Accommodation implementation may require no action on the part of the instructor/department (e.g. student use of a recording device); some coordination on the part of the instructor or program (e.g. provision of presentation materials in advance), or significance coordinator between the instructor/program and the DRC (e.g. conversion of course materials to an accessible format by the DRC document conversion team).
Personal devices such as glasses, mobility devices, and personal care attendants are not considered reasonable accommodations in an academic context.
An accommodation is not considered reasonable if it causes a direct threat to the health and safety of the student or any other person.
An accommodation is not considered reasonable if it would significantly change or compromise learning objectives or outcomes of a course or program, or fundamentally alter the nature of any program of instruction, including those related to licensing requirements, or result in an undue burden on the program or University.
Procedures [URL]: Registration Process; Accommodations Grievance Process
Forms: Student Registration Form; Disability Verification Form
Related Laws, Regulations, Statutes, and Policies:
List all relevant laws: Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (ADAAA), Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Section 504).
Document History:
Approved by: UIC Senate Committee, Chancellor
Effective date: April 26, 2022
Approved date: April 26, 2022
Approved as: New Policy
 
 














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












