 















                            Accommodations | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Accommodations
Reasonable Accommodations
What Are Reasonable Accommodations?
Sometimes the design of a physical space, digital space, assignment, test, or other element of the UIC experience will create barriers for students with disabilities that prevent them from getting equal access. Since equal access to the college is a guarantee under the law, these students have the right to reasonable accommodations, which remove barriers to their access. Accommodations do not provide an advantage or a "leg up" to students -- they are designed to even the playing field.
Ex) A student who is a wheelchair user may encounter physical access barriers if they are placed in a dorm that doesn't have convenient elevator access. A reasonable accommodation might be to ensure their placement in a fully wheelchair accessible room.
Ex) A student who has ADHD may may encounter barriers when taking a test in a crowded room with many other students moving and making noise. A reasonable accommodation might be for the student to test in a distraction reduced testing environment.
Students must disclose disability status and register with the DRC in order to receive accommodations. Accommodations are decided on an individual basis, and may change over time depending on the student's situation and their course of study.
For more information on registering with the DRC, check out our Registration Page.
For more information on Student Rights and Responsibilities, check out our Rights and Responsibilities Page.
Select the name of an accommodation for more detailed explanations and guidance.














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












