 















                            Testing Accommodations | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Testing Accommodations




New to UIC?
How To Schedule Accommodated Tests with the DRC





Testing Accommodations Explained






            Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) for Accommodated Testing
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) for Testing
The DRC is open for  in-person testing appointments; all COVID-19 safety and sanitation protocols will be followed. DRC Testing Coordinators can still be reached to assist faculty with the implementation of online testing accommodations via email or by phone.
 
The FAQ below is for general in-person testing once our office resumes normal operations. Please address any DRC testing questions to our testing coordinators at accesstesting@uic.edu.





                            How do I know if a student is eligible to test at the DRC?
                    








            Each student has the responsibility to share their LOA with the instructor of the course.
          

Each student has the responsibility to share their LOA with the instructor of the course. LOAs are written for all classes a student may take, and students may find that they do not need certain accommodations in your course or many times may not realize that they need their accommodations until some time has passed.
Accommodations are not retroactive, and so would be in effect from the time a student shares their LOA moving forward. Of course, they also need to give you and the DRC time to prepare and organize materials, so if they share exam accommodations the day before an exam we/you might not have time to arrange for those accommodations.







                            How does a student register to take an exam at the DRC?
                    








            Complete the Student Exam Request form
          

Students need to first discuss their Letter of Accommodation (LOA) with you, along with their request to take the exam at the Disability Resource Center (DRC). If you agree to the student testing at the DRC or cannot otherwise implement their accommodations in the classroom, the student will need to submit an exam scheduling request via the DRC Accommodate portal at least 72 hours (3 days) prior to the requested exam date.







                            Will I receive confirmation of a student's reservation?
                    








            DRC Testing will send a confirmation to the student and copy (cc) the instructor
          

Once the scheduling request has been processed, DRC Testing will send a confirmation to the student and copy (cc) the instructor with the date and time of the exam. There will also be a direct link to the Exam Proctoring Form that instructors must to fill out prior to the exam. DRC Testing does not automatically send any other reminders before the date of the test, so please take note so that you can send materials in a timely manner.







                            Does DRC Testing provide scantrons, scrap paper, and other materials?
                    








            Yes
          

Yes, DRC Testing has scantrons and scratch paper that students can use, if they are required or permitted to use the items during the exam. However, if the exam requires the use of a Blue Book and loose leaf paper cannot be substituted, then the student or the instructor must provide in order to use it for the exam. The DRC does not provide Blue Books.
For students who need accessible technology, such as a computer, assistive software, or digital recorders, DRC Testing can coordinate the use of technology for the exam.




















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












