 















                            Mobility and Physical Access | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Disability Resource Center


Accommodations


Mobility and Physical Access






Mobility and Physical Access
UIC is committed to providing accessible physical spaces for all students with disabilities. Please take a look at the access and accommodation information below for students with permanent or temporary disabilities that impact their mobility.






            Navigating Campus: Maps, Parking, and Paratransit
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Campus Maps
The campus maps below denote the location of wheelchair accessible building entrances and designated parking spots for those with disabled placards or plates.

East Side Accessibility Map
West Side Accessibility Map
Campus Accessibility Map

A map of single-stall, all-gender bathrooms can be found on the UIC Campus Map by choosing “Health and Safety,” then “All Gender Restrooms” on the lefthand navigation menu.
Parking
Parking spaces designed for the use by persons with disabilities are available in card access lots and visitor lots on campus. Students who plan to pay for parking and require an assignment to a specific lot for access reasons should first register with the DRC. Upon registration, the DRC will provide notice to UIC Campus Parking Services. Due to limitations in parking availability, UIC Campus Parking Services makes the final determination as to the parking lot assignments. For more information on parking, call UIC Campus Parking Services at (312) 413-5800, (312) 413-9020, or (312) 413-5850.
Paratransit Services
In addition to fixed route Intercampus bus routes, which are wheelchair accessible, point to point van service is available on campus as an accommodation through UIC Transportation Services’ Paratransit service. On-campus Paratransit Service is available seven days a week for students, faculty and staff with disabilities. Students who require this service should contact the DRC to become approved riders.
Requests for rides can be scheduled on a weekly or ad-hoc basis. Scheduled rides take precedence over additional (non-regularly scheduled) ride requests. Transportation Services will make every attempt to accommodate additional ride requests made by authorized Paratransit Service users. However, the provision of additional rides is contingent upon driver and vehicle availability.
For more information contact the Paratransit service at rides@uic.edu.
To schedule non-recurring rides, contact the numbers below.

For Paratransit Service between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 11:00 P.M, please call Transportation Services at (312) 996-2842.
For Paratransit Service between the hours of 11:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M., Please call the Red Car Service at (312) 996-6800.
For Paratransit Service on Saturdays and/or Sundays: Requests must be made by 5:00 P.M. the Thursday prior.







            Classroom Access: Classroom Layouts, Classroom Relocation, and Accessible Furniture
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Classroom Layouts
Layouts and seating of classrooms on campus varies greatly from building to building. The Office of Campus Learning Environments provides images of general-use classrooms throughout the campus. Select a building and a classroom to see the layout and style of the classroom.
Classroom Relocation 
The DRC will work with the UIC Office of the Registrar to relocate classrooms when necessary. Ideally, requests for classroom relocation should be submitted two weeks before the start of the semester to avoid disruptions. Students who believe they may need a classroom relocated should contact their Disability Services Specialist to start the process.
Accessible Furniture
The DRC can also assist with the provision or removal of furniture to accommodate student needs. Any requests for different furniture or for furniture to be moved can be sent to the student’s Disability Services Specialist. Please include detailed information about furniture and arrangement needs.






            Lockers and Public Kitchen
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The following amenities are available for all UIC students, and do not require accommodation through the DRC:
General Lockers
Lockers are available free of charge to UIC students in the following Lecture Centers: Burnham Hall, Addams Hall, Taft Hall, Stevenson Hall, and Henry Hall. To register, students will need to visit the SCE Building Management office, located on the 1st floor of Student Center East, Monday –Friday from 8:30am –5:00pm.
Locker rentals registration begins on the 1st day of class during the Fall, Spring and the 4-week Summer semesters. Please have a key padlock and your I-card ready before coming to register.
For further information, please contact the Building Management office at (312) 413-5100.
Commuter Lockers
Weekly and semester lockers are available to reserve for commuters. Lockers are distribute at the start of each fall and spring semester. More details on lockers are available on the Commuter Student Resource Center.
Public Kitchen
The Commuter Student Resource Center is equipped with a kitchen that features microwaves, a sink, a public refrigerator and public freezer. This is a great space to store your lunch or other items that may need refrigeration.






            Reporting Access Issues
          Heading link



 
Copy link



UIC is committed to maintaining a barrier-free environment so that individuals with disabilities can fully access programs, services, and all activities at the University.
Accessibility issues or concerns related to the University can be submitted electronically by students, staff, faculty, and members of the public via the Online Reporting Form. This form is not for accommodation requests.








What Are Accommodations?


Back to main content




















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












