 















                            Alternate Format | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Disability Resource Center


Accommodations


Alternate Format






Alternate Format
What is Alternate Format?
Alternate Format is the process of making information available in an accessible format for individuals with visual and other print-related disabilities. The most common formats we convert material into is PDF, EPUB, Word, and .Kesi (Kurzweil). This service is available through the Disability Resource Center (DRC) at no cost to students at UIC.
 
A few important things to keep in mind when requesting Alternate Format Services:

An alternate format request form must be filled out for all requests.
Normal turn-around time for this service is 10 business days from the date the form is received by the DRC.
Course materials for conversions must be provided to our office in a timely manner. The DRC is not responsible for converting materials that are due on or before the week of receiving materials. Course materials due prior to DRC receipt will be worked on as time allows.

If you have any questions or comments about alternate format procedures, you can contact the alternate format team via email at accesstext@uic.edu






            Student Guide to Alternate Format
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            How do I obtain Alternate Format Services at UIC?
                    








            What is my first step if I need Alternate Format Services at UIC?
          

First, you should schedule a meeting with a DRC Disability Specialist to determine whether alternate format is an appropriate accommodation for your documented disability and which format best fits your needs. Check out our Registration Page for more information.







                            Once I am approved for this accommodation, how do I get my materials in an alternate format?
                    








            What is the Alternate Format process?
          


Complete the Alternate Format Request Form. Submitting the form will start the process to convert course material into an alternate format.

If you require textbooks in an alternate format, gather the book title and ISBN for each textbook in order to process your request. If you don’t know this information, you can look it up on the UIC Bookstore website.
If you indicate on the request form that you need additional materials (syllabus, handouts, non-textbook readings, etc.) converted, we will reach out to your instructors to gather these materials and convert them as they become available



**Please note that it may take up to 10 business days to convert course materials and keep in mind that it is never too early before the semester begins to put in a request!

Prepare to receive your converted material

If you are a Kurzweil user, make sure your Universal Library account set up
If you are not a Kurzweil user, make sure that your Box account is set up by following the steps here: https://accc.uic.edu/answer/how-do-i-create-university-box-account. All students have access to a free Box account through UIC.



If you need assistance with either of these steps you can contact Nick Esposito, our Accessible Document and Technology Specialist at nespo@uic.edu or (312) 413-2183

The alternate format team will upload converted course material either to your Kurzweil Universal Library or the Box folder the document conversion team creates for you.

If you need assistance at any point in this process, you can contact us directly at accesstext@uic.edu.












            Faculty Guide to Alternate Format
          Heading link



 
Copy link



If a student provides you with a Letter of Accommodation that includes an accommodation for alternate format, you can help facilitate the process of making your course material accessible.





                            How do I initiate the Alternate Format Process?
                    








            Initiate Alternate Format
          

Please complete the Alternate Format Request Form. Submitting the form will start the process to convert course material into an alternate format for students.
This form will require you to upload your syllabus so that our team can assess the content of your course and follow up with you if necessary.
**Please note that it may take up to 10 business days to convert course materials–It is never too early to upload course material!







                            What is faculty's role in the Alternate Format Process?
                    








            Faculty's Role
          

The faculty role in the alternate format process will vary based upon the student’s request.
For all requests: ensure that you have completed the Alternate Format Request Form.
For textbook conversions: the alternate format team will coordinate textbook conversions using our online resources. This will likely not require any additional steps on the faculty member’s part.
For students who require any other course material (course material provided by faculty including articles and book chapters, lectures, PPTs etc.) in an alternate format, faculty will need to share materials with the DRC Alternate Format team by following the steps below:

Make sure that you have a UIC Box account set up by following the steps here: Create A UIC Box Account. If you need assistance with this step, you can contact ACCC at consult@uic.edu (312) 413-0003
Once your Box account is created, the document conversion team will share a Box folder with you titled with the course name and number as well as student’s name. Each course folder will house weekly folders for uploaded content.
It is the responsibility of the faculty member to upload and organize course material in Box
Converting course material for students in a timely manner depends upon the document conversion team receiving the course material through Box in advance of when it is needed 
Please remember to inform the alternate format team via email (accesstext@uic.edu) with any changes to your course material as soon as possible.

**Please note that it may take up to 10 business days to convert course materials–It is never too early to upload course material!
If you need assistance at any point in this process, you can contact us directly at accesstext@uic.edu.














What Are Accommodations?


Back to main content




















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












