 















                            ASL and CART | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Disability Resource Center


Accommodations


ASL and CART






ASL and CART






            ASL/CART Request Form and Captioning Guide
          Heading link



 
Copy link








User icon






Request ASL/CART






Document icon









Guide for Captioning Live Sessions









            General Information on ASL and CART
          Heading link



 
Copy link



A Note On ASL and Captioning for Remote and Online Classes:
ASL as well as live and closed captioning accommodations are absolutely available for classes and events that happen on an online or digital platform such as Zoom or Blackboard Collaborate, as well as for pre-recorded lectures. If a live stream, webinar, or video is being captioned as part of a specific accommodation request, it is best to use DRC services to ensure accuracy of the captions and transcript. Please follow the standard procedure by completing the ASL/CART Request Form to initiate a request. Feel free to email the student’s Disability Services Specialist or drc@uic.edu for more information.
How to allow for captions in Zoom
How allow for captions in Blackboard Collaborate
If there is no active accommodation request, video owners are nevertheless encouraged to caption their videos for Universal Design. Captions are helpful for a wide variety of people and make video content fully searchable. Panopto, Youtube, and Echo360 can generate captions using automatic speech recognition (ASR). These typically require editing before they’re suitable for publication, but the ASR process can save substantial time over captioning video from scratch. For specific instructions, see the following resources:
How to Add and Edit Automatic Captions in Panopto
How to Add and Edit Automatic Captions in Youtube
How to Add and Edit Automatic Captions in Echo360
American Sign Language (ASL) and Interpretation
Sign language and oral interpreters are available for classes and campus events. Requesting these services promptly following registration ensures sufficient time to provide appropriate support services for academics. Given advance notice, the DRC facilitates provision of ASL for classes, class events, and for students attending campus events and activities.
Communication Access Real-Time Translation (CART) and Captioning
CART live captioning services and closed captioning services for video materials are available for students who need captions in order to fully access audio content. CART produces real time (live) word-for-word captions for live events, classes, discussions and seminars. A CART provider is assigned to a class based on the registered student’s schedule. The student can access the captions via small screen (such as a laptop or tablet) or via a projector and screen. Given advance notice, the DRC facilitates provision of CART for classes, class events, and for students attending campus events and activities.
Generally, services provided by outside vendors that are requested for accessibility purposes, such as ASL Interpretation, CART Live Captioning, audio description, and creation of closed captioning for video are scheduled and facilitated through the Disability Resource Center, though arrangements may be made outside of the DRC. No student, member of faculty or staff, or community member needing accessibility services, and who has requested services in a timely manner, will be denied the benefit of such services.
Payment for Services
Once services are sought, coordinated, and rendered, the following guidelines will govern the billing process for payment of third party accessibility service vendors.
The Disability Resource Center (DRC) will pay for services rendered when 1) a UIC student or prospective student with a disability is the recipient of the services and 2) the materials, course, or event that services are requested for is required as part of a student’s academic program, or admission into said program.
Accessibility services will be billed to the department hosting the event when a 1) department, student, or member of the public initiates a request for a departmental or public-facing event held on UIC’s campus or otherwise hosted by UIC that is not required for a student’s academic program (even if a registered DRC student is attending) or 2) when a UIC employee registered for accommodations with the Office for Access and Equity (OAE) requires accessibility services to perform the essential functions of their job.








What Are Accommodations?


Back to main content




















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












