 















                            Housing and Meal Plans | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Disability Resource Center


Accommodations


Housing and Meal Plans






Housing and Meal Plans
Housing Accommodation Requests
Certain medical conditions or disabilities may require an accommodation for Campus Housing.
All housing accommodations and related placement will be determined in collaboration between the DRC and Campus Housing. Rates for accommodated on-campus housing will be determined based on the most prevalent room type in the student’s assigned building, in order to ensure that students requiring housing accommodation are not charged higher rates based on a disability related need for a specific room type. Accommodated housing placement is based on student need, but will not always be amenable to student preference.
Examples of disability-related requests include:

A residence hall with a kitchen
Permission to live with an assistance animal
Assignment to a single room.

Meal Plan Accommodation Requests
UIC's meal plan contract does not permit releases based on religious dictates, personal food choice or preferences (e.g., vegetarianism), or other non-medically-based, dietary requirements. Additional information on a variety of special diets, as well as nutrition and health information, can be found on Dining Services website. You can also contact dining@uic.edu with any questions or concerns.
If a request for a meal plan accommodation based on a student's disability is received, the University’s dietician will be consulted and recommend a final decision.








What Are Accommodations?


Back to main content




















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












