 















                            Attendance/Absence Accommodations | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Attendance/Absence Accommodations
Some disabilities may occasionally make it impossible for a student to attend class, and may even prevent a student from participating (in person or remotely) for several days, such as during a severe flare-up or hospitalization.
In such cases, flexibility with existing course attendance policies may be approved as an appropriate accommodation. This accommodation does not mean the student is afforded unlimited absences, though generally, the maximum number of absences for a student with this accommodation should be higher than the maximum number stated in the syllabus. The number of absences that is reasonable and appropriate will vary from course to course, and may be lower if in-class participation and active learning with classmates are fundamental to the curriculum. As such, this accommodation requires conversation between the student and instructor to appropriately adjust attendance policy to a point that meets the disability needs of the student while maintaining the curriculum of the class.
After providing their instructor with their Letter of Accommodation (LOA), students must contact their instructor directly OR contact their Disability Services Specialist to initiate the conversation regarding reasonable number of absences. As with all accommodations provided by the DRC, these accommodations do not apply retroactively to absences before the instructor’s receipt of the LOA.
Professors and students, with or without the assistance of a Disability Services Specialist, must discuss the possibility of the student missing class, including how many absences would be reasonable given the nature of the course, how the student will notify the instructor in case of absence, and how missed work will be made up. These implementation details should be documented in writing. As a guide for conversation, and a means to record details, instructors may use the DRC’s Modified Absence Policy Planning Form.
Note: At no time are students required to present documentation to instructors in order to justify a disability-related absence.
If a student exceeds a reasonable number of absences and/or if these absences have not been discussed with the instructor, please contact the student’s Disability Services Specialist, who can assist in how to proceed. If the student does not complete the coursework or does not meet the course expectations after accommodations have been discussed and provided, they should be graded accordingly.














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












