 















                            Occasional Deadline Flexibility | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Occasional Deadline Flexibility
Some disabilities may occasionally prevent a student from dedicating sufficient time to an assignment, and a strict and punitive deadline policy would prevent them from demonstrating their mastery of course material.
In such cases, occasional deadline extensions may be approved as a reasonable accommodation. This accommodation does not afford a student a “blanket” extension for all assignments in a class, though generally, if a certain number of late assignments are permitted in the class syllabus, the maximum number of extensions for a student with this accommodation should be higher than that number. The number of extensions that is reasonable, and a reasonable timeframe for extension will vary from course to course, and frequently from assignment to assignment. For this reason it is crucial that the student and instructor communicate up front about which deadlines may be reasonably extended, by how long, and how students should request an extension should they need one.
After providing their instructor with their Letter of Accommodation (LOA), students must contact their instructor directly OR contact their Disability Services Specialist to initiate the conversation regarding reasonable deadline extensions. As with all accommodations provided by the DRC, these accommodations do not apply retroactively to deadlines before the instructor’s receipt of the LOA.
Professors and students, with or without the assistance of a Disability Services Specialist, must discuss implementation details. These details should be documented in writing. As a guide for conversation, and a means to record details, instructors may use the DRC’s Deadline Extension Planning Form.














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












