 












                            Miranda, Fabio  | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 















Fabio  Miranda
Assistant Professor

Department of Computer Science









Contact 

Building & Room:
2032 ERF


Address:
842 W. Taylor St, MC 152, Chicago, IL, 60607


Office Phone:
(312) 996-3422


Email:
fabiom@uic.edu


CV Link:
Fabio  Miranda


Related Sites:


Personal site












About

I am interested in developing techniques that allow for the interactive visual analysis of large-scale data, combining methods from visualization, data management, machine learning, and computer graphics. In particular, I focus on how visual data analytics can help address different problems cities face by integrating data on different resolutions and from different sources.
I have worked closely with domain experts from different fields and the outcome of these collaborations included not only research published in Vis, DB, and AI venues, but also systems that were made available to experts in academia, industry and government agencies. My work has also received extensive coverage from different media outlets, including The New York Times, The Economist, Architectural Digest, Curbed, among others.
Prospective students: send me an email if you are interested in conducting and publishing research in the areas of data science, human-computer interaction and visualization, including:

Visual analytics, including interactive visual data analysis.
Data structures and indexing techniques for big data visualization, making use of new advancements in GPUs architectures.
Urban analytics, harnessing data sets of different types (images, land use information, 3D building geometry, etc.) to address concrete city problems.
Applied machine learning, including image feature extraction and graph neural networks.

(See my website for more details, including open positions and updated list of publications).



Selected Publications

Visualizing simulation ensembles of extreme weather events
Carolina Veiga Ferreira de Souza, Priscila da Cunha Luz Barcellos, Lhaylla Crissaff, Marcio Cataldi, Fabio Miranda, Marcos Lage
Computers & Graphics (2022)
Urban Rhapsody: Large-scale Visual Exploration of Urban Soundscapes
Joao Rulff, Fabio Miranda, Maryam Hosseini, Marcos Lage, Mark Cartwright, Graham Dove, Juan Bello, Claudio T. Silva
Computer Graphics Forum (EuroVis 2022 proceedings)
Urban Mosaic: Visual Exploration of Streetscapes Using Large-Scale Image Data
Fabio Miranda, Maryam Hosseini, Marcos Lage, Harish Doraiswamy, Graham Dove, Claudio T. Silva
CHI 2020
Learning Geo-Contextual Embeddings for Commuting Flow Prediction
Zhicheng Liu, Fabio Miranda, Weiting Xiong, Junyan Yang, Qiao Wang, Claudio T. Silva
AAAI 2020
Shadow Accrual Maps: Efficient Accumulation of City-Scale Shadows over Time
Fabio Miranda, Harish Doraiswamy, Marcos Lage, Luc Wilson, Mondrian Hsieh, Claudio T. Silva
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 2018
Spatio-Temporal Urban Data Analysis: A Visual Analytics Perspective
Harish Doraiswamy, Juliana Freire, Marcos Lage, Fabio Miranda, Claudio T. Silva
Computer Graphics and Applications, 2018
Time Lattice: A Data Structure for the Interactive Visual Analysis of Large Time Series
Fabio Miranda, Marcos Lage, Harish Doraiswamy, Charlie Mydlarz, Justin Salamon, Yitzchak Lockerman, Juliana Freire, Claudio T. Silva
Computer Graphics Forum, 2018
Interactive Visual Exploration of Spatio-Temporal Urban Data Sets using Urbane
Harish Doraiswamy, Eleni Tzirita Zacharatou, Fabio Miranda, Marcos Lage, Anastasia Ailamaki, Claudio T. Silva, Juliana Freire
SIGMOD’18: 2018 International Conference on Management of Data
TopKube: A Rank-Aware Data Cube for Real-Time Exploration of Spatiotemporal Datasets
Fabio Miranda, Lauro Lins, James Klosowski, Claudio T. Silva
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 2017
Urban Pulse: Capturing the Rhythm of Cities
Fabio Miranda, Harish Doraiswamy, Marcos Lage, Kai Zhao, Bruno Gonçalves, Luc Wilson, Mondrian Hsieh, Claudio T. Silva
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 2017



Publication Aggregators


Google Scholar




Notable Honors

2018, SIGMOD Best Demonstration Award, SIGMOD
2018, Pearl Brownstein Doctoral Research Award, New York University



Education

Ph.D., Computer Science, New York University, 2018.
M.S., Computer Science, Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro (PUC-Rio), 2011.
B.S., Computer Science, Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), 2009.



Research Currently in Progress


Visualization of Probability Distributions of Geographical Data
Interactive Exploration of Large Image Databases
Automatic Assessment of Sidewalk Quality from Street-level Images
Urban Navigation in Virtual Reality
Interactive Profiling of City Land Use Evolution
Visual Data Exploration through User-Steerable Projections
Commuting Trip Distribution Modeling using Graph Neural Network

















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












