 















                            DRC Referral Materials | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












DRC Referral Materials
In order to receive accommodations through the DRC, students must first disclose disability and request services from the DRC. The information and resource below are designed to support faculty and staff pin their crucial role of making appropriate referrals and connecting students with the DRC.
Materials (click the following links to download)
DRC Syllabus Statement and Announcement (incorporate this statement into your course syllabus, and use this announcement as a guide for the first week of class)
DRC PowerPoint Slide (to include in first week presentations)
DRC Flier (for use at any point in Orientations or for referrals)
DRC folleto en Español
Online Course Format Description
Send students a description of how your class will be formatted before it begins, so they can make access arrangements in advance. This can be especially important in online classes, which may have elements that are complex to accommodate or new to the student.
Ex) “Welcome to SOC 101! This course will include synchronous (live) discussions once a week over Zoom. All other assignments will be asynchronous, and will include weekly discussion questions on Blackboard, assigned readings and videos, and a take-home mid-term and final.”
 
Referral Dos and Don'ts
DOs

Make a general announcement about the DRC to normalize service during Orientation or the first week of class
Emphasize the importance of seeking help if you need it
Refer students who disclose disability status to the DRC (they can call, email, or stop by)
Respect confidentiality – even if the student seems to be open to public conversation
Use questions that open the door for student disclosure, such as:

Has this kind of assignment always been difficult for you?
I noticed you ran out of time -- does that happen a lot?
Have there been any supports or resources in the past that were particularly helpful for you?
It sounds like you're dealing with a lot right now. Are you talking to anyone about it?



DON’Ts

Make assumptions about disability status
Ask for or collect medical documentation
Make up accommodations with students outside DRC process
Make judgmental comments:

“Are you sure you want to pursue such a difficult career path?”
“You don’t look disabled.”


Praise or valorize students for not making use of an disability accommodation

 














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












