 















                            When You Receive an LOA... | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












When You Receive an LOA…
Take a look at the instructions and resources below to assist with implementation of accommodations if a student provides you with a Letter of Accommodation (LOA):

Review the listed accommodations. Use the DRC Accommodations Guide for reference if you have questions; always feel free to contact the DRC Specialist listed on the top of the letter via phone or email if you have specific questions.
Set a time to meet with the student privately via phone, email, video chat, or in person to determine which accommodations the student will need for your course and how you will implement them. Focus on the accommodations, not on the student's diagnosis.
Record these expectations in writing. Feel free to use this LOA Memo Template (courtesy of Prof. Kessler in the ENG department!) and adjust based on your expectations and agreements with the student.
Contact the student’s DRC Specialist or drc@uic.edu immediately if you have questions or concerns. The DRC is always available to help facilitate conversations around implementation.

Please note: some accommodations serve as more of an "FYI" and require no action on the instructor's part (e.g. student will be using assistive technology). Others may require planning with the student based on the nature of the specific course (e.g. flexibility with deadlines). Others will require coordination with the Disability Resource Center (e.g. having exams proctored by the DRC).














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












