 















                            Accommodations Complaint Process | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Accommodations Complaint Process
Students who have been denied an academic accommodation are encouraged to reach out directly to the DRC contact person listed on the top of their Letter of Accommodation (LOA) for immediate assistance.
Faculty or staff who disagree with a student’s academic accommodation or who are having difficulty implementing accommodations are also encouraged to reach out directly to the DRC contact person listed on the top of the student’s Letter of Accommodation (LOA) for immediate assistance.
If outreach to the DRC contact person does not resolve the issue, an individual may file a complaint by following the step-by-step process outlined below.
Individuals, including employees, students, visitors, and members of the public, who believe that they have been subjected to unlawful discrimination or harassment of any kind are encouraged to contact the Office for Access and Equity at 312-996-8670 or oae@uic.edu.
Step 1.
If an informal resolution cannot be reached, the complaint should be submitted to the Disability Resource Center Director at drc@uic.edu through written or recorded means.
Step 2.
The Disability Resource Center Director, or their designee, will meet with the complainant within seven (7) business days of the receipt of the complaint.
Step 3.
If Step 2 does not resolve the complaint, the Director, or their designee, will forward the complaint, within three (3) business days of the Step 2 meeting, to the Associate Chancellor in the Office for Access and Equity.
Step 4.
The Associate Chancellor in the Office for Access and Equity, or designee, will meet with the complainant within seven (7) business days of the receipt of the complaint and, upon review, investigation, or other action, provide a recommendation to the Director of the Disability Resource Center.
Step 5.
The Director will provide written notice to the complainant within three (3) business days of receipt of the Associate Chancellor’s recommendation, and take necessary steps to implement the recommendation.
Note: The timelines set forth are intended to ensure a timely review and resolution of a complaint. There are, however, many factors that may affect the length of time needed to resolve the complaint.














 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












