 















                            Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides






            DRC Resources and Partners
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Take a look through the different tab categories and its resources below. Check out the resource’s website to learn more about open hours or services available during COVID-19.
Feel free to contact the DRC if you want a direct referral or assistance in finding the best support for your situation.







                                On-Campus
                          


                                Off-Campus
                          


                                Student Guides to Online Learning
                          


                                Student Organizations
                          


                                Referrals
                          







            Academic Support
          





Name
Description





College Advising Contacts


                The Office of Advising Development has created a list of contacts from different colleges on campus who can connect you to your appropriate advisor. 
              



Flames Tutoring Network (FTN)


                FTN brings together our campus units that offer tutoring, peer led study groups, instructional/educational support and other learning related services for students. FTN provides a common space for information on the services provided to optimize your success.
              



Department of Disability and Human Development (DHD)


                The DHD department is an internationally-recognized center for the interdisciplinary study of disability, conducting scholarship and community-engaged service across the spectrum of disability, including advocacy, culture, education, health promotion, history, policy and technology.
              



Academic Center for Excellence (ACE)


                ACE provides learning support services to enable all students to accomplish their academic goals by developing critical thinking skills and learning strategies that will enhance their academic success.
              



TRIO


                TRIO's mission is to support low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities with their educational plans from high school to post-baccalaureate programs. TRIO provides an atmosphere of creativity and belonging where students are nurtured and supported in achieving academic excellence that leads to college graduation and career endeavors.
              



CHANCE


                The CHANCE Program was designed to assist with its goal to increase recruitment, retention and graduation rates of underrepresented students.
              



Writing Center


                The Writing Center will work with students on research, personal statements, lab reports, memos, class assignments, applications, or whatever you have. 
              



Math and Science Learning Center (MSLC)


                MSLC is a learning environment that provides diverse forms of academic support to students in Math and Science courses at UIC.
              



Business Connect


                Business Connect is here to help students succeed with their academic goals, enhance their experience as a UIC Business student and help facilitate a successful future beyond their time on campus. They also offer a dedicated career center serving undergraduate and graduate business students. 
              








            Student Services
          






Description





Office of the Dean of Students (DOS)


                Through a variety of offices, including Student Assistance, Community Standards, Student Legal and Student Veterans, DOS assist students in resolving issues so they can focus on their academic and social development.
              



Student Legal Services (SLS) - Office of the Dean of Students


                SLS is available to assist current students in understanding and solving their legal problems. Funded through student fees, SLS can provide confidential legal advice, counsel and limited representation for currently enrolled students. Legal matters that the program is not available to handle are referred to appropriate agencies.
              



Student Veteran Affairs - Office of the Dean of Students


                Student Veteran Affairs provides a welcoming and supportive environment for our military-connected students. They provide resources, assistance, and programming to ease the transition and ensure your academic success.
              



UIC Library - Accessibility Services


                The UIC Library welcomes users with disabilities and is committed to providing accessible services, spaces and resources for everyone. You can reserve and access computer stations for users with disabilities. These are computers with accessibility software (FSReader, JAWS 18.0, Kurzweil, NaturalReader, and ZoomText 11) located on an adjustable table.
              



Counseling Center


                The Counseling Center provides diverse services to help students deal with stress, handle a crisis or trauma, cope with the transition to college, gain strength from gender and cultural identity, or manage serious mental illness and many other issues. Their counselors can help students increase resilience and positive well-being by developing effective coping and problem-solving skills.
              



Campus Advocacy Network (CAN)


                CAN is an on-campus service center dedicated to providing confidential, anonymous, free services to UIC students, staff and faculty who have experienced sexual assault, domestic/dating violence, stalking and hate crimes. 
              



Campus Housing


                Take a look at the services and the housing opportunities Campus Housing has to offer.
              



Technology Solutions


                Technology Solutions provides and maintains technologies and services critical for many university functions. They are here to provide and support the technologies students, faculty, and staff need to achieve their goals.
              



Student Employment


                Student Employment is a centralized service that offers assistance to students, departments and off-campus employers. In addition, they sponsor various job fairs throughout the year and a series of career development workshops.
              



Career Services


                Career Services offer one-on-one advising, career preparation programs, and events to help connect students with opportunity.
              



Commuter Student Resource Center (CSRC)


                CSRC strives to provide a sense of belonging among commuter and off-campus students while offering programs and services to enhance wellness, academic success, and student engagement at UIC. Whether students commute from home or live in an off-campus apartment – they are here to assist.
              



CampusCare


                CampusCare is an affordable self-funded student health benefit program that has been providing comprehensive health care benefits to eligible enrolled students and their covered dependents.
              



UIC Savvy Student Guide


                The University has created a comprehensive list of all the student services and resources at UIC. 
              



Wellness Center


                The Wellness Center supports student learning, academic success, and retention by providing wellness services that promote healthy attitudes and behaviors, empower students to make informed choices and enhance holistic well-being. They provide accurate and relevant health and wellness information, educational programs and events, and skill-building activities and workshops to the UIC community.
              








            Cultural Belonging/Advocacy
          





Name
Description





Disability Cultural Center (DCC)


                DCC offers public programs, discussion series, arts-based workshops, and one-on-one support — as they work to engage an understanding of disability as a social justice issue and a site for identity, community, and culture. They welcome students, staff, faculty, community members; we welcome Disabled, Deaf, Sick, and Mad people; nondisabled allies/accomplices; people with conditions who may or may not identify as disabled; and people who are thinking through their relationship to disability identity.
              



Chancellor's Committee on the Status of Persons with Disabilities (CCSPD)


                CCSPD is an advisory body dedicated to promoting the academic, professional, cultural and social welfare of persons with disabilities as well as providing leadership on the history, needs and resources. CCSPD makes recommendations to the Chancellor addressing these issues as well as developing, initiating and managing programs that further address the comprehensive concerns of persons with disabilities. 
              



African American Cultural Center (AACC)


                AACC curates, produces, and sponsors exhibitions, performances, films and film screenings, open-mic poetry, gatherings, lecture-demonstrations, dance, storytelling, visual and performing arts workshops and projects. The Center coordinates and supervises high school and college internships, supports student and postdoctoral research, and lends its expertise to a number of collaborative programs and initiatives. 
              



Arab American Cultural Center (ArabAmCC)


                ArabAmCC seeks to affirm the diverse needs of the Arab and Arab American students; increase awareness about Arab and Arab American and Muslim American cultures and histories; and build community, solidarity, and brave spaces on campus while promoting social justice, equality, and inclusivity at UIC and the Chicagoland area and cherish cultural diversity.
              



Asian American Resource and Cultural Center (AARCC)


                AARCC supports the needs of Asian Americans at UIC and offers social, cultural, and educational programs to those interested in expanding their knowledge about Asian Americans.
              



Gender and Sexuality Center (GSC)


                Through programs, initiatives, events, and workshops, GSC creates a more inclusive campus and catalyzes positive social change in the world. Underlying the Center's work is an understanding of intersecting identities and the multiple layers of diversity within LGBTQIA+ identities including race, class, ability, geography, immigration status, and religious affiliation.
              



Rafael Cintron Ortiz Latino Cultural Center (LCC)


                LCC engages campus and local communities to deepen understanding of the diverse cultural heritages and identities of Latinxs, issues affecting their lives, and creative solutions they are using to improve community life. LCC offers engaged learning co-curricular opportunities that feature cultural and artistic expressions, intercultural and civic dialogues, scholarly presentations, and first-voice stories.
              



Women's Leadership and Resource Center (WLRC)


                WLRC works to promote gender equity by raising awareness of women’s and gender issues, developing women’s leadership, celebrating women’s accomplishments and contributions, and encouraging self-care and spiritual well-being. WLRC houses the Campus Advocacy Network (CAN) program, through which we offer resources–crisis support, advocacy, education, training–to address interpersonal violence (sexual harassment/violence, stalking, domestic violence).
              



Latin American Recruitment and Educational Services Program (LARES)


                LARES was established to assist in the recruitment of Latino students, to provide academic support to increase their chances for success, and to empower students by providing personal growth and educational opportunities and to prepare leaders who will make individual and collective contributions toward the cultural and social advancement of the Latino community.
              



Native American Support Program (NASP)


                The missions of NASP is to assist students in achieving their academic goals, increase student minority admissions and retention rates, and engage and inform the Chicago community of indigenous culture’s by providing academic advising, career coaching, cultural relevant activities, and creating a safe and supportive space for indigenous student concerns.
              








            Financial Aid/Tuition Assistance
          





Name
Description





Student Financial Aid & Scholarships (SFAS)


                SFAS supports our students and families by administering federal, state, external, and institutional aid. They provide personalized counseling and outreach to empower students and make higher education more accessible.
              



Office of Scholarships


                The Office of Scholarships assists current UIC undergraduate and professional school students in searching and applying for campus scholarship and external opportunities. We do not award scholarships, and our services are available to current UIC undergraduates and professional students only.
              



Office of External Fellowships (OEF)


                OEF provides extensive advisement and assistance to current undergraduate and professional school students, and to recent alumni, in finding and applying for nationally- and internationally-competitive fellowships, scholarships, and grants. 
              



Graduate College - Funding Overview


                The Graduate College’s Fellowship Office provides this page as an overview of graduate funding. Even if you choose not to attend UIC, most of the information here will be useful to you as a prospective or current graduate student anywhere.
              












            DRC Resources & Partners
          





Name
Description





Access Living


                Access Living work alongside people with all kinds of disabilities including intellectual, psychiatric, physical and sensory disabilities.  They provide a variety of services, including: home and community-based services, Housing services, Youth programs, and Consulting and training for businesses and nonprofits. 
              



Bodies of Work


                Bodies of Work, a network of artists and organizations, is a catalyst for disability arts and culture that illuminate the disability experience in new and unexpected ways. They provide a forum for ongoing programs that honor and explore the accomplishments of artists and offer information to cultural venues about providing access and accommodations.
              



Grupo Salto


                With over 500 families served, Grupo SALTO is the state’s largest support program for Latino families of children with an autism spectrum disorder
              



Autism Clinic and The Autism Program (TAP) Training Center


                The Autism Clinic and The Autism Program Training (TAP) Center works with people of all ages with known or suspected autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). As a regional training center of the TAP of Illinois Service Network, we work to enhance the lives of people with ASD through service, training and research.
              



Tu y Yo


                Tu y Yo assists young adults with autism mentoring, educating and advocating. They visit schools and community centers, educating groups about the myths and facts of autism and spreading a message of acceptance of individual differences.
              



Chicago ADAPT


                Mission ADAPT is a national grass-roots community that organizes disability rights activists to engage in nonviolent direct action, including civil disobedience, to assure the civil and human rights of people with disabilities to live in freedom. 
              



Chicago Lighthouse


                Whether you are a parent raising a child who is blind, a Veteran re-entering the workforce or an older adult seeking a community of peers, the Chicago Lighthouse offers customized care to improve the quality of life for you and your family.
              



Mayor's Office for People with Disabilities (MOPD)


                MOPD promotes total access, full participation and equal opportunity for people with disabilities of all ages in all aspects of life. It seeks to accomplish this mission through a multi-faceted approach that includes systemic change, education and training, advocacy and direct services.
              



Center on Halsted


                Center on Halsted is the Midwest's most comprehensive community center dedicated to advancing community and securing the health and well-being of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) people of Chicagoland.
              



Anixter Center


                Anixter Center provides supports and services to adults with disabilities, people with behavioral health related needs, and people who are Deaf, DeafBlind and hard of hearing.
              



Wounded Warrior Project


                With the support of their community of donors and team members, Wounded Warrior gives a voice to those needs and empower our warriors to begin the journey to recovery.
              



Cairs


                Cairs works to improve the overall well-being of the Midwest Deaf and Hard of Hearing community through consistent excellence in provision of services as well as community education, leadership and advocacy.
              



Equip for Equality


                Equip for Equality’s mission is to advance the human and civil rights of children and adults with disabilities in Illinois. They administer the federally mandated Protection and Advocacy System for Illinois, remove barriers, and level the playing field.
              



Mental Health America of Illinois (MHA Illinois)


                MHA Illinois are dedicated to promoting mental health, working for the prevention of mental illness and improving care and treatment for persons suffering from mental and emotional disorders. 
              



Disability Rights Bureau – Illinois Attorney General


                This Bureau has exclusive authority to enforce the Illinois Environmental Barriers Act and its design standards, the Illinois Accessibility Code which require physical accessibility in new construction, additions and alterations to public facilities, and new multistory housing. They also enforce the Illinois Human Rights Act, which provides jurisdiction to investigate complaints that allege a pattern and practice of disability discrimination in housing, public accommodations, employment, or financial services.
              



Division of Rehabilitation Services - Illinois Department of Human Services (DRS)


                DRS works in partnership with people with disabilities and their families to assist them in making informed choices to achieve full community participation through employment, education, and independent living opportunities.
              



Housing Action Illinois


                Housing Action Illinois includes organizations such as housing counseling agencies, homeless service providers, developers of affordable housing, and policymakers. They empower communities to thrive through three programs: Policy Advocacy, Public Education & Organizing, and Capacity Building.
              



Resources for Students with Dyslexia, Dysgraphia, or Dyscalculia 


                This guide helps students with dyslexia, dysgraphia, or dyscalculia understand how to manage their disability while succeeding in college. There are support systems for those who have these conditions, and it’s important to take advantage of tools and resources to ensure that success is within reach.
              



Resources for Students with ADHD


                The purpose of this guide is to increase understanding of and awareness for college students with ADHD and provide resources and expert insight they can use to help them find success.
              












            On-Campus
          





Name
Description





DRC Tips for Remote Distraction Reduced Testing Environment


                The DRC has come up with a list of tips and resources for distraction reduced testing at home.
              



DCC Accessibility Considerations for Remote Access


                The Disability Cultural Center's remote access document is designed to support all of us in planning for all members of our community during times of COVID-19. 
              



Bonfire Back to School Tips


                Whether your classes are a/synchronous and remote, or you’re getting those twice-weekly COVID-19 tests to take classes in person, we’re all about to enter an unprecedented school year. Keep these tips in mind to help navigate through this semester.
              



ACCC Student Online Learning


                The Academic Computing and Communications Center is dedicated to student success and providing the resources and support needed to succeed in an online learning environment. 
              



ACCC Troubleshooting Tips


                Try these troubleshooting steps if you're having trouble with online platforms or resources. 
              



ACCC Collaboration Tools


                There are several web-conferencing tools that enable virtual communication and collaboration at UIC. Students should familiarize themselves with the web conferencing tool(s) that will be required for online learning.
              



UIC COVID-19 Policy Updates and Communications


                Check out this page for UIC's academic policy revisions & provost communications.
              



Wellness Center


                The Wellness Center put together a list of helpful tips to navigate e-classes.
              



Ace's Tools for Success


                Ace provides student academic support and has many resources to ensure student success.
              








            External Resources
          





Name
Description





University of Illinois Tips


                Seven tips to help you stay successful once you are in an online course
              



University of Washington Online Learning Strategies


                The University of Washington share their experiences and recommendations for other students with disabilities who are taking online courses.
              



McGill Accessibility from Home During COVID-19


                The following resources and assistive technologies have been temporarily been made free of charge and become widely accessible for home use during the COVID-19 pandemic.
              



National Deaf Center


                Resources and tips from the National Deaf Center During COVID-19
              



University of Florida Netiquette Guide


                University of Florida created a guideline for online behavior and interaction also known as netiquette. It is important to recognize that the online classroom is in fact a classroom, and certain behaviors are expected when you communicate with both your peers and your instructors. 
              



Minnesota State Skills List for Online Learning


                Minnesota State created a list of skills that makes online learners successful. 
              



Northeastern University Tips and Strategies for Online Learning


                Take a look at Northeastern University's online learning strategies for success
              



University of Vermont Maintaining Success in Online Learning


                University of Vermont's list of factors and tips that can help students with e-learning. 
              



Guide for Transitioning to Online School


                From getting the right tech in place to mastering Zoom and Google Meet, learn how to prepare yourself for online learning success.
              












            Student Organizations
          





Name
Description





Connecting Dots International (CDI)


                CDI is committed to creating a comfort zone where international and local students, including undocumented and first-generation students can exchange knowledge on disability rights and culture, share the beauty of diversity, and cooperate to accomplish their academic and professional goals.
              



Chicagoland Disabled People of Color Coalition (Chicagoland DPOCC)


                Chicagoland DPOCC is an organization that promote disability justice and celebrate people of color with disabilities through education, advocacy, arts & culture, educate principles of disability acceptance, accessibility, and inclusion in communities of color, and foster a safe space for disabled people of color to advocate and discover their disability pride. 
              



Coalition for Autistic and Neurodivergent Students (CANS)


                CANS is a student-led community for autistic and neurodivergent college students in the Chicago-area. They meet regularly to meet friends, share resources, and participate in workshops, activities, and advocacy. All students who identify as autistic or neurodivergent, and are current junior college, community college, undergraduate, graduate, or professional students are welcome.
              



Disability and Human Development Student Association (DHDSA)


                The purpose of DHDSA is to serve as a student voice to enhance the graduate and and undergraduate programs in the department. This includes presenting student viewpoints to faculty on issues, retaining student input to support and enhance the department’s curriculum, and promoting a supportive and nurturing academic community for students.
              



Mental Health and Disability Alliance (MHDA)


                The mission of the MHDA is to cultivate collaborations between the university and the community with the purpose of reducing stigma and other barriers surrounding mental health and disability. MHDA aims to achieve these goals through interdisciplinary approaches of raising awareness, research and education, advocacy, and community engagement.
              












            On-Campus
          





Name
Address
Contact Info
Hours
Additional Information





UIC Neuropsychiatric Institute Clinic (NPI)


                912 South Wood St.
Chicago, IL 60612
              

                Phone: 312-996-2200
              

                Hours: 

Monday & Tuesday 8AM - 7PM 

Wednesday - Friday 8AM - 5:30PM
              

                - Covered by Campus Care if student gets referral from PCP
              



UIC Office of Applied Psychological Services (OAPS)


                1007 West Harrison St.
Behavioral Sciences Building Room 3011A
Chicago, IL 60607
              

                Phone: 312-996-2540

Fax: 312-413-7841
              

                Hours: 
Monday - Thursday 9AM - 5PM
              

                - $300 for students
              



UIC Developmental Disabilities Family Clinic


                1640 West Roosevelt Rd.
Disability, Health, & Social Policy Building Room 103
Chicago, IL 60608
              

                Phone: 312-413-1871
              

                Hours:

Monday - Friday 9AM - 4PM
              

                - Covered by Campus Care if student gets referral from PCP
              








            Off-Campus
          





Name
Address
Contact Info
Additional Information





AMITA Health Neuropsychological Care


                Check out their website to find the closest location near you
              

                Phone: 855-692-6482
              

                - Contact your insurance for costs and in-network clinics around your area
              



Center for Personal Development


                405 North Wabash Ave.
Suites 208, 1114, & 4009
Chicago, IL 60611


1300 West Belmont Ave.
Suite 201 & 203 
Chicago, IL 60657


636 Church St. 
Suite 321 
Evanston, IL 60201
              

                Phone: 312-755-7000

Email: info@chicagotherapist.com
              

                - Accepts Blue Cross & Blue Shield PPO, UHC, Aetna, & Cigna

- Private pay assessments could cost from $500-$1,500 depending on the assessment needed 
              



Associates in Therapy and Assessment, LLC


                900 West North Shore Dr.
Suite 200 
Lake Bluff, IL 60044


9631 West 153rd St. 
Suite 38 
Orland Park, IL 60462
              

                Lake Bluff -
 
Phone: 847-295-6141

Fax: 888-965-7036

Email: info@therapyandassessment.com


Orland Park - 

Phone: 708-645-8059

Fax: 888-965-7036

Email: info@therapyandassessment.com
              

                - Accepts Blue Cross & Blue Shield PPO

- Private pay assessments could cost from $1,600-$1,700 depending on the scope of the assessment
              



Chicagoland Neuropsychology LLC


                101 North Marion St. 
Suite 313 
Oak Park, IL 60301
              

                Phone: 773-931-3439

Fax: 708-328-3560
              

                - Accepts Blue Cross & Blue Shield PPO

- Private pay hourly
              
























 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












