 















                            Reopening and Safety Protocols | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              











Reopening and Safety Protocols



DRC Office Re-Opening
The DRC is returning to the office! As of Monday, August 23 the Disability Resource Center’s physical location will be open with reduced/staggered staffing at Student Services Building (1200 W. Harrison), Room 1070, from Monday through Friday, 9 AM to 4 PM.
To reduce capacity in the office we will default to phone and Zoom meetings and intakes, but Disability Services Specialists and our Assistive Technology Specialist will be available for in person meetings upon request, and accessible testing will resume in person.
Safety Protocols
It is imperative for the health and safety of all for students to follow UIC Covid guidelines when visiting the DRC. This means:

Indoor masking is mandatory for all in person appointments, tests, and visits to the DRC.
When you check in for any DRC appointment, including tests and meetings with staff, you will be asked to show your UIC Daily Pass (go.uic.edu/dailypass). Only students with a green badge -- indicating that they are vaccinated, or that they have a vaccination exemption and have completed mandatory saliva testing -- will be allowed to enter testing and office spaces. Please be prepared to show your green UIC Daily Pass on a phone, tablet, or computer when coming to the DRC for any kind of appointment.















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












