 












                            About | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              









About





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Welcome to the UIC Counseling Center
The Counseling Center provides a wide range of mental health services to UIC students including assessment and diagnosis of mental health concerns, group, relationship, and individual therapy, outreach and educational programming, consultation services, virtual drop-in spaces, workshops, peer support groups, and 24/7 crisis intervention services. We also help connect students to additional mental health resources at UIC and in the Chicago community to meet your individualized needs.
The Counseling Center also provides professional training and development through its paraprofessional program for UIC undergraduate students, advanced psychotherapy externship, APA-accredited doctoral internship, and postdoctoral fellowship.
Our staff is committed to social justice and proud to provide culturally-affirming mental health services to UIC’s diverse student body.





            Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Meet Our Staff
                    












                            Hours & Location
                    












                            Eligibility & Service Limitations
                    












                            Frequently Asked Questions
                    










            About the Counseling Center
          Heading link



 
Copy link

















            More Information
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Clinical Services
                    












                            Outreach, Education, and Consultation
                    












                            Professional Training
                    









            Mission Statement
          Heading link



 
Copy link




The UIC Counseling Center is a primary resource providing comprehensive mental health services that foster personal, interpersonal, academic, and professional thriving for UIC students. We provide students with accessible and culturally sensitive mental health services to promote overall wellness and help them to make the most of their learning experience at UIC. Consistent with the University’s mission of preparing students for a life of engaged global citizenship, we are committed to social justice and to a campus culture of inclusiveness, respect, and enthusiasm for diversity. To this end, we engage the community through outreach and educational activities. We also provide rigorous training to future mental health clinicians, recognizing that the advancement of a socially just and inclusive culture demands the development of like-minded and committed professionals.



  Mission Statement
  
               | 
              
  UIC Counseling Center
  






            Values Statement
          Heading link



 
Copy link




The philosophy of our Counseling Center is to foster a strengths-based environment where students can empower themselves to achieve both academic and personal goals, not only during their tenure at UIC but also in their life beyond. We use our therapeutic relationships with students as a vehicle for change, and we place high value on building relationships and connections within our UIC community. Our hope is that this will foster in students a sense of safety and connection not only to the Counseling Center, but to the larger UIC campus community. The staff of the UIC Counseling Center values a commitment to the provision of the highest level of ethical services for the students we serve. We strive to make these services available and accessible to UIC students regardless of their identities or means. We are excited about and committed to providing services that honor and celebrate all the rich facets of diversity present within our campus community. We strongly oppose social injustice in all its forms and are dedicated to advocating for students who have experienced such injustices. Overall, we strive to instill in our center, the university, and our student body the importance of valuing all forms of diversity and embracing our differences so that we can come together as a united community.



  Values Statement
  
               | 
              
  UIC Counseling Center
  
















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













