 












                            Crisis Services | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              









Crisis Services





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon
















            Crisis Support
          Heading link



 
Copy link





A mental health crisis can include but is not limited to:

You are feeling unsafe
You are hearing or seeing things that are not really there
You have recently experienced violence (e.g., sexual assault, physical abuse, hate crime)
You are thinking about hurting others
You are considering suicide or self-harm



Call 312-996-3490 to talk to the UIC crisis counselor on call, any time 24/7

During business hours, please inform the receptionist that you are experiencing a mental health crisis.
If you are calling in crisis after hours, please select option 2 on the automated menu.



For support outside of UIC, call 988 any time 24/7

Dialing 988 will connect you to a trained crisis professional. Their website has an online chat feature, too.









            Common Questions about Crisis Services
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Some students may hesitate to use crisis services because they don’t know what to expect. Read the sections below for answers to some common questions and concerns that students have about using crisis services.





                            What should I expect when calling the crisis line?
                    








            What should I expect when calling the crisis line?
          

When you call our office during business hours, you will speak with one of our receptionists. They may ask you some questions about the nature of your concerns and the services you are seeking. Please give them a brief overview of the nature of the crisis (e.g., “I’m thinking about hurting myself”). The receptionist may place you on a brief hold while connecting you with a crisis counselor (in some cases, the receptionist may end the call and your crisis counselor will call you from an unlisted number). If you are calling after hours, you will be prompted to press 2 on the automated menu.
The crisis counselor will start the call by gathering some basic information including your name, phone number, and current address. They will ask you about the nature of your crisis and will likely ask follow up questions. The types of questions you may be asked will depend on the nature of your crisis. You and your crisis counselor may also come up with a plan for how you can stay safe. This can involve ideas such as coping skills you can use on your own, people you can contact, places you can go, and things you can do to make your environment safer. If you don’t feel like you can keep yourself safe, you and your crisis counselor may talk about other steps such as contacting family members or other trusted adults, or arranging transportation to a nearby hospital for additional support. Your crisis counselor may also encourage you to schedule an initial consultation, which would typically be scheduled for the same or next day.
These calls are not intended to be therapy sessions, are usually brief (most calls last about 15-20 minutes), and are meant to be focused on the specific crisis you are experiencing at the time.







                            Is my concern serious enough for crisis services?
                    








            Is my concern serious enough for crisis services?
          

When in doubt, call us. If you are unsure whether your situation is a crisis, you can let us know and we will help you figure it out. Sometimes, things like depression or trauma can trick us into thinking that our concerns are not important or that we would be burdening people if we reached out for help. Sometimes, we just go through situations that are stressful but not necessarily a crisis. Part of the process when we provide crisis services involves determining what resources might be helpful for you and how urgently you may need them.







                            Will I have to go to the hospital if I call the crisis line?
                    








            Will I have to go to the hospital if I call the crisis line?
          

The short answer: Only in certain rare situations.
The longer answer: Some students worry that if they use crisis services or mention suicide, they’ll be forced to go to the hospital against their will. In reality, mental health providers have an ethical–and in some cases legal–responsibility to provide care using the “least restrictive means” possible. In practical terms, this means that we usually try several other approaches before referring someone for hospitalization. In most cases, even if you’re thinking about suicide or self-harm, we’ll be able to come up with a plan to keep you safe without going to the hospital. We also want your honest input on what kinds of services you feel you need. In nearly every case that we refer a student for hospitalization, this is done after the crisis counselor and student agree that hospitalization is the best option for them.







                            Are crisis services confidential?
                    








            Are crisis services confidential?
          

Yes. We cannot disclose any information that you share during a crisis call without your written permission, except in the following situations:

you are at clear, imminent risk of causing serious harm or death to yourself or another person
there is suspected abuse or neglect of a child or vulnerable adult (e.g., an adult with a developmental disability)
the records are court-ordered as part of an ongoing legal proceeding

In cases where we are legally or ethically obligated to break confidentiality, we share only the minimum required by law or to keep you or others safe. We also make every attempt to let you know in advance, and still seek your permission to do so.
When using crisis services, you may wonder what counts as “clear, imminent risk of causing serious harm.” There are several factors that we take into account when determining this risk. Statements like, “I wish I would get hit by a car” or “my brother is so annoying, I could just punch him sometimes,” are typically not enough on their own to warrant breaking confidentiality.
Another good rule of thumb is that we only break confidentiality to protect–not to punish. For example, we would not tell anyone if you attempted suicide five years ago, unless that history was directly related to your risk of attempting suicide in the near future.







                            Are crisis services anonymous?
                    








            Are crisis services anonymous?
          

No. Because we are legally and ethically responsible for your care and safety, and because we only provide services to UIC students, we need to know some basic information about who you are when we provide crisis services.







                            Why do you need to know my current location if I am receiving crisis services remotely?
                    








            Why do you need to know my current location if I am receiving crisis services remotely?
          

Knowing your location helps us determine what resources and emergency services may be available nearby. There are certain times when we might need to use this information. For example, if you lose consciousness during a phone call, are in an actively abusive situation, or experience some other unexpected crisis, we would need to be able to get emergency services to you right away. Although situations like these are rare, we need to be prepared to respond to these types of emergencies.












            Additional Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Some students may prefer to use crisis services outside of UIC. Please see the resources below for more support options.





                            If you are thinking about suicide, have a plan, and don’t think you can stop yourself
                    








            Suicide Resources
          




            Go to your nearest emergency room
          

If you are on campus, the UIC Emergency Room is located at 1740 W Taylor St Chicago, IL 60686

One or more healthcare professionals will ask you several questions, and you may be admitted to stay in the hospital and receive treatment until you are feeling better. Many insurance policies will cover necessary emergency services obtained in most hospital emergency rooms, and UIC Hospital Inpatient Psychiatry is part of the Campus Care network of approved treatment facilities. Going to the ER can be scary, but try your best to let the doctors and nurses take care of you.





            Call 988
          

988 has replaced the National Suicide Hotline and is available 24/7. When you call, the operator will get you the help you need by connecting you to a trained counselor who can help you develop a plan to stay alive. If you need in-person support, the counselor will help get you connected to that care.
If you prefer, you can also use their live chat option.










                            Crisis Text Line
                    








            Crisis Text Line
          

The Crisis Text Line lets you text your feelings to someone who cares. Text HOME to 741741 and a trained crisis counselor will text back.







                            Crisis Assistance Response and Engagement: An Alternative to Police Involvement
                    








            Crisis Assistance Response and Engagement: An Alternative to Police Involvement
          

The CARE team responds to 911 calls with a mental health component Monday-Friday 10:30am-4:00pm in two pilot areas: Uptown/Lakeview and Auburn Gresham/Chatham. The CARE team includes a CFD Community Paramedic, CDPH Mental Health Clinician, and CPD CIT Officer. When the CARE team responds to an individual in crisis they offer de-escalation, mental health assessment, referrals to community services, and transport to community-based destinations as appropriate. Learn more about this program here.







                            BIPOC Resources
                    








            BIPOC Resources
          

Contact Blackline at 1(800)-604-5841 for crisis support or to anonymously and confidentially report negative, physical, and inappropriate contact with police and vigilantes. This service is open to anyone but is intended to support Black, Black LGBTQI, Brown, Native and Muslim communities.
From their website, “We are here to answer messages from anyone who may be in crisis, wants to describe and interaction with law enforcement or vigilantes, or simply needs to talk through an experience. You do not have to provide any personal information to use the service. All calls remain private and will never be shared with law enforcement or state agencies of any kind.”







                            LGBTQ Resources
                    








            LGBTQ Resources
          

The Trevor Project specializes in supporting people in the LGBTQ community. You can call them any time at 866-488-7386. They also have a chat service and a text service (text START to 678-678) that are available 24/7/365.
The Trans Lifeline (877-565-8860) provides crisis and non-crisis peer-support services for people who are transgender, non-binary, and questioning their gender identity.







                            Deaf and Hard of Hearing Resources
                    








            Deaf and Hard of Hearing Resources
          

The 988 suicide hotline provides crisis support for people who are deaf or hard of hearing. For TTY Users: Use your preferred relay service or dial 711 then 1-800-273-8255.







                            En Español
                    








            En Español
          


Puedes llamar a 988 lifeline.
La Línea de Vida Nacional para la Prevención del Suicidio ofrece servicios las 24 horas al día los 7 días de la semana. Los servicios son en español, son gratuitos, y están a tu disposición si necesitas apoyo.
Cuando llames, una persona capacitada te escuchará y hablará con contigo. Si es necesario, te darán información sobre recursos o servicios que hay en tu comunidad que pueden prestarte ayuda después de la llamada. Puedes volver a llamar al número 1-888-628-9454 las veces que quieras o lo necesites.
Algunos miembros del personal del Centro de Consejería en UIC hablan español y también te pueden brindar servicios de apoyo para manejar una crisis de salud emocional.








                            Veteran Resources
                    








            Veteran Resources
          

The Veterans Crisis Line is a 24/7 service available to all veterans, service members, National Guard and Reserve, and their family and friends. Call 1-800-273-8255 and press 1, text 838255, or chat online to talk to a VA professional, many of whom are veterans themselves.







                            Domestic Abuse and Interpersonal Violence Resources
                    








            Domestic Abuse and Interpersonal Violence Resources
          

You can call Safe Horizon  at 866-621-HOPE (4673) or the Illinois Domestic Violence Help Line  at 877.863.6338 (or 1-877-863-6339 TTY) any time. Safe Horizon also offers an online chat from 9am-6pm, Monday through Friday.
If you are in immediate danger, you can also call the UIC Police at 312-355-5555.







                            Sexual Assault Resources
                    








            Sexual Assault Resources
          

The National Sexual Assault Hotline is available 24/7 by calling 800-656-HOPE (4673). They also offer an online chat and an app.
The YWCA also offers a 24/7  Rape Crisis Hotline help to those who have been affected by sexual assault. You can call them at 888-293-2080 (Chicago Metro Area), 630-971-3927 (DuPage County), or  708-748-5672 (South Suburbs).
The Counseling Center has partnered with the Wellness Center and other UIC offices to prepare a resource guide for students who have experienced sexual harassment, discrimination, or assault.












            Other Crisis-Related Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            I am not currently in crisis but am feeling overwhelmed
                      



                                        Check Out Our Online Resources
                                



                                        Try Our Self-Care App
                                



                                        Consider a Single-Session Appointment
                                



                                        Consider an Initial Consultation
                                





                            I am not currently in crisis but know someone who might be
                      



                                        Learn how we can help
                                



                                        Learn how to spot warning signs
                                



                                        Learn how to help someone in distress
                                



                                        Suicide prevention resources
                                



                                        Call 988 to consult
                                



















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













