 












                            Post-Doctoral Fellowship | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Counseling Center


Training


Post-Doctoral Fellowship






Post-Doctoral Fellowship






            The Postdoctoral Fellowship at UIC Counseling Center
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The post-doctoral fellowship is designed for individuals who are interested in providing therapy, supervision, and training in a counseling center with a diverse population of students with an emphasis on multiculturalism and social justice. The fellowship has an emphasis on clinical service delivery, with opportunity to deepen outreach/consultation and supervision/training skills. While we pride ourselves on a fellowship that provides a breadth of experience common to clinicians in a university setting, we are pleased to offer opportunities to Fellows to focus on an area of specialty, including a focus on group psychotherapy (1 position), and Outreach/Multicultural focus.







                                Responsibilities
                          


                                Supervision and Training
                          


                                Optional Rotations
                          


                                Compensation and Benefits
                          


                                Minimum Qualifications
                          


                                Preferred Qualifications
                          








            Responsibilities
          


Direct clinical work of 21-23 hours per week, including 2-3 regularly scheduled Initial Consultations per week, 1 Crisis Consultation per week, 14 hours of psychotherapy with individuals and/or couples, and 3 hours of group therapy co-leadership (two groups).
Supervise two advanced doctoral psychotherapy externs (one per semester) on half of their individual psychotherapy caseload. Other supervision/training opportunities, such as for specialty outreach programs or group therapy, may also be available.
Co-lead a training seminar with a senior staff member; seminar leadership will be informed by the Fellow’s specialty interests and seminar availability. Options include: Multicultural Seminar, Supervision of Supervision seminar, Outreach seminar and Relationship Therapy Seminar.
Provide brief crisis/triage walk-in support to students presenting with urgent, same-day needs.
Develop/provide 3 outreach programs over the course of the year with additional involvement in the Counseling Center informational presentations held in early fall and orientation activities held in summer.
Present in the Professional Issues Seminar for trainees and staff on a topic of emerging expertise.
Participate in the weekly clinical and training meetings.
Serve as a committee member of the Post-Doctoral Fellowship search committee. Participate in application review in Internship selection.
Other duties as assigned by the Counseling Center.







            Optional Rotations for 2023-2024
          

Optional opportunities for a specialty track:
For the 2023-2024 postdoctoral training year, we are excited to offer two areas of clinical specialty. These tracks are optional and will be tailored to the Fellow’s specific training and professional goals.

Group Psychotherapy specialty: in this track, the Fellow would be provided with opportunities and support that will help them obtain certification as a Certified Group Psychotherapist (CGP). The fellow on this track would have the opportunity to co-facilitate three weekly psychotherapy groups and receive supervision from a CGP certified (or eligible) supervisor. The fellow will also co-facilitate the fall group therapy seminar for interns. There are opportunities to join established therapy groups at the Center, and support to Fellows to create their own specialty focus (eg., grief group). This track will be available to one postdoctoral fellow in the 2023-2024 year.
Outreach / Multicultural Focus specialty: The Fellow may choose this track to develop a tailored focus that targets specific student population (eg., working with Latinx students in individual therapy and via provision of outreach/consultation), collaborates on tailored community outreach and consultation, serves as a liaison to an identified campus office, and works with staff on other social justice initiatives within and outside the Counseling Center. This focus will also include co-facilitating a training seminar (Outreach Seminar or Multicultural seminar pending the Fellow’s specialty focus) with a staff member.
In lieu of choosing one of the identified specialty tracks, Fellows may elect to develop a specialty project on an area such as therapy, outreach, consultation, training and supervision, research, or administration that enhances professional development and the programs at the Counseling Center.











            Supervision and Training
          


Two hours of weekly individual supervision with a licensed clinical psychologist who has been licensed a minimum of three years, focusing on clinical and supervisory work.
One half hour of group supervision with each group co-facilitator.
Bi-weekly attendance at group consultation meetings.
Bi-weekly attendance at Multicultural Staff meetings.
One hour meeting with the Assistant Director of Training focusing on support and oversight for the post-doctoral year, bi-weekly during Fall semester and monthly the remainder of the year.
Additional supervision will be provided as needed for seminar co-leadership, specialty projects, etc.
Attendance at biweekly Professional Issues Seminar
Participation on Counseling Center committees.
Attendance at multicultural staff meetings and other professional development meetings as scheduled throughout the year.











            Optional Rotations
          


For the 2023-2024 Postdoctoral Training Year, we are excited to offer two areas of clinical specialty. These tracks are optional and will be tailored to the Fellow’s specific training and professional goals.


Group Psychotherapy Specialty: In this track, the Fellow would be provided with opportunities and support that will help them obtain certification as a Certified Group Psychotherapist (CGP). The Fellow on this track would have the opportunity to co-facilitate three weekly psychotherapy groups and receive supervision from a CGP certified (or eligible) supervisor. The Fellow will also co-facilitate the fall group therapy seminar for interns. There are opportunities to join established therapy groups at the Center, and support to Fellows to create their own specialty focus (eg., grief group). This track will be available to one postdoctoral fellow in the 2023-2024 year.
Outreach / Multicultural Focus Specialty: The Fellow may choose this track to develop a tailored focus that targets specific student population (eg., working with Latinx students in individual therapy and via provision of outreach/consultation), collaborates on tailored community outreach and consultation, serves as a liaison to an identified campus office, and works with staff on other social justice initiatives within and outside the Counseling Center. This focus will also include co-facilitating a training seminar (Outreach Seminar or Multicultural seminar pending the Fellow’s specialty focus) with a staff member.
In lieu of choosing one of the identified specialty tracks, Fellows may elect to develop a specialty project on an area such as therapy, outreach, consultation, training and supervision, research, or administration that enhances professional development and the programs at the Counseling Center.











            Compensation and Benefits
          


Annualized salary is $55,000.
Monies (up to $400 per Fellow) are available for professional development through approved conferences/activities, which may be applied towards their specialty focus or another area of interest.
Fellows are eligible for benefits provided to academic professionals (e.g. health, dental and vision insurance for the post-doctoral Fellow and their eligible dependents including domestic partners, life, accidental death and dismemberment, retirement, long-term care, and flexible spending accounts).  More information is available at https://www.hr.uillinois.edu/benefits/
24 days of earned vacation time, 3 days of professional leave, 13 days of sick leave, and University holidays.
Three hours a week of on-site licensure study time is allotted from May – August.











            Minimum Qualifications
          


Completion of a doctoral degree in Clinical or Counseling Psychology prior to the start of the post-doctoral position required. All degree requirements, including your dissertation, must be completed prior to the fellowship start date
APA-accredited doctoral program and APA-accredited doctoral internship required
Previous experience providing direct (I.e., non-simulated) supervision required
Professional experience and competence working with multicultural diversity required











            Preferred Qualifications
          


Previous counseling center experience preferred



















            How to Apply
          Heading link



 
Copy link




Click here to get started; Requisition ID # is 1015571.
Upload cover  letter, current resume, and three letters of reference



Cover letter should include your interest in our program, its relationship to your professional goals, your theoretical approach, your experience providing supervision, interests you may pursue for specialty project, and expected dates of completion of your internship, dissertation, and doctoral degree
At least two letters of reference should be from supervisors familiar with your clinical work.




When filling out the application using the link above, please have prepared electronic copies of your cover letter, CV and three letters of reference before submitting the application. Upload your CV using the “upload resume/CV” button, and your cover letter using the “upload cover letter button.” Submit all three letters of reference using the “Upload additional attachments” button. Please note, applications that do not include all three components will be considered incomplete and may not be reviewed.



      Apply Now
    








            Important Dates
          Heading link



 
Copy link





Application Deadline

Tuesday, January 3rd, 2023 for fullest consideration



Preferred Start and End Dates

August 7th, 2023 – August 6th, 2024









            Text blocks
          Heading link



 
Copy link






            Postdoctoral Fellowship
          

Direct questions regarding the postdoctoral fellowship to:
Mirka Ivanovic, PsyD.
Assistant Director of Training
Counseling Center (MC 333)
University of Illinois at Chicago
1200 W. Harrison Street, SSB #2010
Chicago, IL 60607-3320
Phone Number: (312) 996-3490, TTY available through the Office of Disability
Email Address: mirkai@uic.edu
 




            Application Process
          

Direct questions regarding the application process to:
Renée L. Fitzpatrick, MS, SHRM-SCP
Human Resources Associate,
Student Affairs Human Resources
The University of Illinois Chicago
Email: rlfitz@uic.edu









            text block
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The University of Illinois at Chicago is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action employer. Minorities, women, veterans and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply.








Training


Back to main content









APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology 


Application Process 

Goals of the Internship 

Internship Activities 

Trainee Evaluation Procedures 

Benefits and General Policies 

Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data 

Previous Trainees 

Training Staff 



Advanced Psychotherapy Externship 


Application Procedures 

Direct Service Activities 

Clinical Training Activities 

Previous Trainees 

Training Staff 



Post-Doctoral Fellowship 

United Support Network Paraprofessional Program 













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













