 












                            In Support of Our Iranian Community | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











In Support of Our Iranian Community


Posted on October 17, 2022








            In Support of Our Iranian Community
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The UIC Counseling Center would like to acknowledge the pain, fear, anger and grief that the UIC Iranian and Iranian-American community is experiencing.  On September 16, 2022, Mahsa Amini was killed by the Iranian Morality Police. Following this act of brutality, a series of protests have occurred that have led to the killing of more Iranian people, with violence targeting individuals with marginalized identities, specifically women and ethnic minorities.
We are deeply saddened by the death of Ms. Amini and by those who have since lost their lives in the violent state response to the uprising.  To our students, faculty, and staff of Iranian descent or affiliation, and others with ties to the region, we extend our concern, empathy, and understanding of the many ways in which these events are profoundly disturbing and can impact day-to-day functioning.  As mental health professionals, we understand the mental and emotional impact of violence and oppression. We also recognize that these incidents can activate past traumas related to social, political, or generational oppression.
The UIC Counseling Center is here for our Iranian students and anyone in our community who has been impacted, directly or indirectly, by this or similar oppressions. We offer confidential services to process these events and to get support and cope. If you would like to meet individually with a counselor, you can schedule an Initial Teleconsultation or Single-Session appointment. These services are provided privately and offer spaces to address your concerns and receive treatment recommendations. If you would like to receive support from both peers and a counselor, you can sign up for a Drop-In Space or our Peer Support groups. We also provide case management and community referrals to connect you to relevant resources both within the UIC campus and within the broader community. Please contact the Counseling Center at 312-996-3490 if you have any questions about our services.















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













