 












                            COVID-19 Service Updates | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











COVID-19 Service Updates






            Virtual Services
          Heading link



 
Copy link







The Counseling Center will continue to offer its services virtually during Fall 2022 due to COVID-19 concerns for health and safety.






Though all appointments continue to be virtual, a limited number of staff will be present in the office from 8:30am-5pm Monday-Friday.






Masks are required when entering the office.










            Service Updates
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Throughout the ever-changing landscape of life during COVID-19, we at the Counseling Center remain committed to providing accessible mental health resources for our UIC Community. We continue to strive to create safe and inclusive spaces for our students, to push ourselves to grow in our multicultural awareness, and to be strong allies and advocates for the diverse populations we serve.





                            Initial Consultation
                    








            Initial Consultation
          

To schedule an initial consultation, please call us at (312) 996-3490. On the day of your scheduled appointment, you will call this number again in order to access your initial paperwork. Once you submit your completed paperwork, our receptionist will alert your initial consultation counselor, who will send you link to a secure online video platform (Zoom PHI). This conversation typically lasts for for 30-45 minutes. Be sure to have a safe, private space for this conversation and for any future therapy appointments.







                            Single Session Appointments
                    








            Single Session Appointments
          

Single-Session Appointments will continue to be offered virtually via Zoom PHI. These appointments can be scheduled online, typically within 24 hours.



      Learn More about Single-Session Appointments
    









                            Individual and Relationship Therapy
                    








            Individual and Relationship Therapy
          

At this time, all relationship and individual therapy services are being provided remotely using Zoom PHI. Similar to in-person sessions, remote sessions tend to last 45-50 minutes. All clients must be in the state of Illinois during all therapy sessions. Clients are also encouraged to be in a private space during their session where they feel comfortable talking openly about mental health concerns. If you do not have a private space, please let us know and we will help you arrange one at the Counseling Center or another location on campus.



      Learn More about Individual and Relationship Therapy
    









                            Group Therapy
                    








            Group Therapy
          

The Counseling Center is continuing to provide all group therapy services using Zoom PHI. Our peer-led support groups are also running remotely. To participate in a remote group, please have a private space and access to online video platforms (as phone tends to be a difficult medium for groups). All clients must be in the state of Illinois, and in a private space, during all therapy sessions. If you do not have a private space, please let us know and we will help you arrange one at the Counseling Center or another location on campus.



      Learn More about Group Therapy
    









                            Psychiatry Services
                    








            Psychiatry Services
          

The Counseling Center continues to offer psychiatry services using Zoom PHI (preferred) or by phone. Prescriptions can typically be sent electronically to a pharmacy of your choice. Psychiatry services remain limited to students who are individual therapy clients at the Counseling Center, and students must be in the state of Illinois at the time of their appointment.



      Learn More about Psychiatry Services
    









                            24/7 Crisis Services
                    








            24/7 Crisis Services
          

As is always the case, we strongly encourage any student experiencing a mental health crisis to reach out for help. If you call the Counseling Center at 312-996-3490 during our 8:30-5 business hours, Monday through Friday, our receptionist will ask you a few questions and connect you to a counselor. If you call us before or after business hours, just press option “2” on the automated menu, and you will be connected to a crisis counselor. We also provide a list of additional crisis resources on and off campus; this has been updated to reflect current availability during COVID-19.
Crisis services are available 24/7, regardless of your current location.



      Learn More about Crisis Services
    









                            Outreach, Workshops, & Consultation
                    








            Outreach, Workshops, & Consultation
          

The Counseling Center is continuing to offer outreach services remotely. Limited exceptions can be made for programs that require an in-person component (e.g., crisis intervention role-play training for RAs). We will also continue to offer a variety of remote workshops, including our popular Mindful Way, Self-Compassion, and Managing Your Mood workshops.
Faculty and staff who have concerns about a student may still contact their liaison or call our office during business hours to consult about how to support students in distress.



      Learn More about Outreach & Consultation Services
    














            Service Limitations
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Though we hope to be able to provide services to even more students than ever before using these remote means, we regret that due to state licensure limitations, we are not able to provide ongoing therapy services for students located outside of Illinois. If you are in need of counseling services but are residing out of state, we can still provide an initial consultation appointment to discuss appropriate types of treatment and to advise you on how to connect to therapy resources in your area (such as by calling your health insurance to find in-network providers).
Many of our services are available for all UIC students, regardless of their physical location, including:



      Resource Library
    



      Virtual Drop-In Spaces
    



      Nod App
    



      Mental Health Workshops
    



      Mind-Body Programs
    



      Peer Support
    



      Case Management
    



      24/7 Crisis Services
    

















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













