 












                            Virtual Drop-In Spaces | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











Virtual Drop-In Spaces
The Support You Need, When You Need It
The Counseling Center offers several virtual drop-in spaces for students looking to process thoughts and feelings, get advice and feedback from peers and Counseling Center staff, and connect with others around shared experiences on an ongoing or as-needed basis. No initial consultation is required, and all UIC students are eligible to attend.






            ...and However You Need It
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Our drop in spaces are designed to be as flexible as possible. That means you can have a snack, show up in your pajamas, or even multitask while you’re with us – there are so many ways to take care of your mental health, and we want to meet you where you’re at.  As long as it doesn’t violate the drop-in space agreements below, these spaces can be whatever you make them!






            Drop-In Space Expectations
          Heading link



 
Copy link



All students agree to the following when registering for or using a drop-in space:

I understand that drop-in spaces are not therapy groups.
I understand that drop-in spaces are not crisis services, and will call the Counseling Center at (312) 996-3490 if I am experiencing a mental health crisis.
I understand that my participation in a drop-in space does not mean I am a client at the Counseling Center.
I will maintain confidentiality, including the names and identities of other students in the space as well as any material they may discuss.
I will let the facilitator(s) know if I need accommodations or technology assistance.
I will participate in a private space.
I will be respectful of others in attendance.
I understand that threatening, abusive, or harmful behavior will not be tolerated and may be grounds for ineligibility to participate in future drop-in spaces. This includes harmful behavior directed at others because of their ability, age, gender, nationality, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or other identity factors.







            About the Spaces
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Check out each tab for a description, schedule, and registration link for each drop-in space. To make them as accessible as possible, all drop-in spaces are held virtually over Zoom. Though you are not committed to attending every week and may “drop in” on whatever weeks work for you, we do require registration so that we can ensure that these safe spaces are attended by UIC students only.







                                General Drop-In Space
                          


                                Neurodivergent Drop-In Space
                          


                                What's Going On?
                          








            General Drop-In Space
          

When: Wednesdays 12:00-12:50pm
Facilitators: Luis Salas
Eligibility: All currently-enrolled UIC students.
More Information: Whether it’s the daily challenges of being a college student, the impact of living through a pandemic and political unrest, or you’re just having an off day and want someone to talk to, we’re here for you. Drop in when you need it or come weekly to get the mood boost you need to get you through your day.



      Get the Zoom Link
    












            Neurodivergent Drop-In Space
          

When: Tuesdays 2:00-2:50pm
Facilitators: Dr. Margaret Fink (Director of the Disability Cultural Center)
The Neurodivirgent Drop-In Space is a collaboration between the Counseling Center and Disability Cultural Center.
Eligibility: All students who identify as neurodivergent. This includes students who are autistic or who have ADHD, sensory processing disorder, Tourette’s, or another learning disability (dyslexia, dyscalculia, dyspraxia, dysgraphia, etc.). You do not need to have a formal diagnosis to participate in this space, and students who are questioning whether they may be neurodivergent are invited to participate as well. You do not need to have a specific concern related to being a neurodivergent student to use this space.
More Information: This space adheres to a strengths-based, neurodiversity-affirming model and provides a welcoming environment for neurodivergent students. Students are encouraged to come as they are, and you can take off the mask, stim, infodump, use AAC, and engage in special interests (or learn what these terms mean!) to your heart’s content. We also discuss topics like self-advocacy in the classroom and healthcare settings, building relationships, testing and accommodations, and challenges of navigating a world designed for neurotypical people.
If there is anything we can do to make this space more accessible, or if you have specific questions about this space, please contact Dr. Margaret Fink.



      Get the Zoom Link
    












            What's Going On?
          

When: First Friday of each month
Facilitator: Dr. Belva Miles
What’s Going On? is a collaboration between the UIC Counseling Center and African American Cultural Center with presentations and discussions on rotating mental health topics. Students will have the opportunity to share their experiences on a range of topics focusing on Black mental health and wellness.
 
Past topics have included:

Test anxiety and preparing for finals
Seasonal depression
Microaggressions and daily stressors
…and more!




      Get the Zoom Link
    















            Frequently Asked Questions
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Who is eligible to use drop-in spaces?
                    








            Eligibility
          

Unless otherwise specified in the drop-in space description, all UIC students who are eligible to use Counseling Center services are can use the Counseling Center’s drop-in spaces. These spaces are open to everyone, regardless of whether you’re a current or former client, or have never used Counseling Center services.







                            Do I need a referral to use a drop-in space?
                    








            Referral
          

No. If you use other Counseling Center services, you may be referred to one or more of our drop-in spaces, but a referral is not necessary.







                            Is there a limit on how many drop-in spaces I can use?
                    








            Limit
          

No. You can use multiple drop-in spaces, and you can use each space as often as you’d like.







                            What is a drop-in space like?
                    








            What to expect
          

Drop-in spaces are designed to be flexible to help meet the needs of the students using the space in any given week. Many students find it helpful to consider what they might want to get from the space (e.g., coping skills, talking through what’s on your mind, learning how others deal with similar concerns) and communicate this at the start of the appointment. If you have questions about a specific drop-in space, please contact the facilitators.







                            What's the difference between a drop-in space, workshop, and therapy group?
                    








            Drop-in vs. workshop vs. therapy group
          

Each of these services has unique goals, expectations, and formats. Check out our “What’s the Difference?” page for a full comparison.



      What's the Difference?
    









                            Can I bring someone with me?
                    








            Friends
          

Yes! Our virtual drop-in spaces are designed to be as flexible as possible to meet your unique needs. Friends, partners, and others can use these spaces to learn how to better support each other. As long as they’re a UIC student, they’re welcome to join you.
For spaces with specific eligibility criteria (e.g., the Student/Parent space), participants must meet these criteria unless the facilitators make a limited exception.







                            I'm a current/former client at the Counseling Center. What should I know before using a drop-in space?
                    








            Clients
          

Current and former clients are welcome to use drop-in spaces as needed. If you are a current client, we strongly encourage you to let your therapist know when you’re using a drop-in space. If you plan on using a drop-in space that your therapist is facilitating, please let your therapist know in advance. Your therapist may want to have a conversation with you about how to get the most out of the space, what to expect, and the differences between a drop-in space and therapy.
Some general things to keep in mind include:

To protect your confidentiality in these spaces, your therapist may act like they don’t know you.
Because of how they’re structured, drop-in spaces do not follow a formal treatment plan. You should work with your therapist to identify how you can use these spaces in a way that moves you closer to your treatment goals.
Your therapist may interact with you differently in a drop-in space than therapy. For example, they may share more or less about themselves, be more or less direct/challenging, or spend more or less time problem-solving. Clients can have many different reactions to seeing their therapists in other spaces, and it can be helpful to talk with them about this.






















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













