 












                            Single-Session Appointments | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











Single-Session Appointments











            COVID-19 Service Updates
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Many of our usual procedures have changed since transitioning to online services due to COVID-19. We are frequently reassessing our procedures to ensure our services are as safe and accessible as possible. Check back often for the latest updates.


      See the latest COVID-19 updates here
    








            Single-Session Appointments
          Heading link



 
Copy link






If you are currently experiencing a mental health crisis, do not schedule a Single-Session Appointment. Instead, call us 24/7 at (312) 996-3490. Visit our crisis services page for more information.
 
Sometimes, a brief check-in can give you the mental health boost you need.
The Counseling Center offers 25-minute, single-session appointments that students can schedule the same or next day. These appointments are useful to clarify a goal, work on solving a specific problem, and to receive emotional support. Our staff can also help answer specific questions about our services.
Keep in mind:

Single-Session Appointments are scheduled on a first-come, first-served basis.
When all available Single-Session Appointments are filled for the next 24 hours, you will need to wait until the next business day to access new appointment offerings.
The portal to schedule Single Session Appointments opens at 9am, Monday-Friday.
This is a one-time appointment and is not meant as a substitute for ongoing psychotherapy.
You will be asked to complete a brief form before your appointment to help our staff understand how we can best assist you.

Single Session Appointments are not for:

Crisis management
Short-term or ongoing counseling
Questions or concerns regarding medication

If you are looking for ongoing counseling (e.g., weekly group or individual therapy), please call the Counseling Center at (312) 996-3490 to schedule an Initial Consultation appointment.



      Difference between a Single-Session Appointment and Initial Consultation
    



      Learn More about Initial Consultations
    



      Learn More about Crisis Services
    







            Schedule a Single-Session Appointment
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Step 1: Get the Password
                    

                Get today’s password to access the Single-Session Appointment schedule.
            












                            Step 2: Scheduling
                    

                Check availability and schedule a Single-Session Appointment
            



















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













