 












                            Group, Relationship, and Individual Therapy | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











Group, Relationship, and Individual Therapy
The Counseling Center offers a range of therapy groups, as well as relationship and individual therapy. Therapy services tend to be more structured than other types of services we offer, involving a more regular commitment (e.g., attending weekly sessions), a treatment plan, and different expectations for involvement and attendance than other services such as drop-in spaces or workshops.
For students interested in longer-term therapy services, the Counseling Center offers open-ended counseling in our group therapy program. We can also help connect students to therapists off campus who can offer longer-term relationship and individual therapy.






            Overview of Therapy Services
          Heading link



 
Copy link



            To be eligible for group, relationship, or individual therapy services at the Counseling Center, all students must be referred by their Initial Consultation therapist. Please note that students typically cannot engage in more than one type of therapy service at a time. However, therapy clients may use other Counseling Center services such as our peer support groups, drop-in spaces, workshops, and Mind-Body programs.
          



Group Therapy

Group therapy is generally the best option for students whose concerns involve difficulties in relationships with others. It can be very helpful for students whose family concerns, relationship patterns/conflicts, or social isolation are impacting their mental health. Group therapy can also be an excellent opportunity for students to try out new ways of relating to others in a safe and supportive environment. In group therapy, students can work on improving their mental health with students who share similar identities or experiences. Our group therapy services do not have session limits, which also makes them ideal for students seeking longer-term or more open-ended support.



Relationship Therapy

Relationship therapy (previously called “couples therapy”) involves two or more people attending therapy together to work on building a stronger and healthier relationship. In relationship therapy, you can learn communication skills, overcome barriers to intimacy and commitment, and improve overall relationship satisfaction. Relationship therapy services are available to everyone, regardless of sexuality, gender, marital status, or relationship structure (e.g., monogamous, polyamorous). To be eligible for relationship therapy, at least one partner must be a UIC student. Please note that the Counseling Center does not provide family therapy (i.e., therapy with parents, children, siblings, etc.).



Individual Therapy

Individual therapy involves meeting one-on-one with a therapist, usually every week or every other week, to address a specific problem or concern. Counseling Center staff are trained to support students experiencing a wide variety of concerns, and these do not have to be directly related to your academic experience at UIC. Our individual therapy services are goal-directed, meaning that you and your therapist will work together on a short-term basis to address one or two specific treatment goals. If you are interested in longer-term or more open-ended individual therapy, we provide case management services to help you find a provider off-campus who can provide these services.








            Therapy Services
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Group Therapy
                    

                Learn more about our popular group therapy program
            












                            Relationship Therapy
                    

                For UIC students and their partners to build healthy and happy relationships
            












                            Individual Therapy
                    

                One-on-one appointments with a Counseling Center therapist
            












                            Initial Consultation
                    

                To be eligible for therapy services, a student must be referred by their Initial Consultation therapist
            












                            Other Services
                    

                Check out the Counseling Center's full range of services
            



















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













