 












                            Psychiatry Services | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











Psychiatry Services
The Counseling Center's psychiatry services offer students the opportunity to explore medication options for their mental health concerns. Our psychiatrist plays an important role in the Counseling Center's whole-person approach to mental health care.











            COVID-19 Service Updates
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Many of our usual procedures have changed since transitioning to online services due to COVID-19. We are frequently reassessing our procedures to ensure our services are as safe and accessible as possible. Check back often for the latest updates.


      See the latest COVID-19 updates
    








            Psychiatric Consultation
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Clients receiving ongoing therapy at the Counseling Center may be referred for a psychiatric consultation. Our psychiatrist provides comprehensive psychiatric consultations to help clarify a diagnosis, provide recommendations for laboratory or other evaluation of medical concerns that may play a role in your mental health concerns, and discuss medication or other treatment options as needed. Our psychiatrist may also provide education and guidance regarding optimization of self-care, such as sleep, nutrition, and exercise, as a part of your overall treatment plan.






            Ongoing Treatment
          Heading link



 
Copy link






After the first psychiatric consultation, our psychiatrist may recommend that a client continue psychiatric services at the Counseling Center or provide a referral to another provider who can best meet the client’s needs. Clients who are referred for ongoing psychiatry services at the Counseling Center will continue meeting with both their therapist and psychiatrist.
Ongoing psychiatry services may include prescription medication, vitamins or other nutritional supplementation, or adjustments to diet, substance use, or other lifestyle factors. Please note that our psychiatrist can prescribe medication to treat mental health concerns, but the Counseling Center does not have a pharmacy or dispense medication, so any prescriptions must be filled elsewhere.
Medication for ADHD
In order to receive medication to treat ADHD at the Counseling Center, documentation of a diagnosis through neuropsychological testing within the past 5 years is required. Unfortunately, we cannot accept summary letters from previous providers, previous prescriptions, pill containers, or other documentation as a substitute for neuropsychological testing. Please note that the Counseling Center does not currently provide this testing. If you have not received neuropsychological testing within the past 5 years, our staff would be happy to help connect you to resources on and off campus that provide this service.
Although psychiatric medication can be an effective treatment for ADHD symptoms, it is not the only option. Our staff can help you explore the full range of mental health services available for students with ADHD.






            Eligibility and Limitations of Psychiatry Services
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The Counseling Center offers limited, short-term (no more than 16 weeks), psychiatric services. Typically, only students who are actively engaged in therapy at the Counseling Center may be referred for a consultation with our psychiatrist. When a client’s therapy or psychiatry services at the Counseling Center end, our staff can work with you to transfer your care to another provider, as needed.
Psychiatry services are by appointment only, and no psychiatry appointments are offered after-hours or on weekends. If a client already has a psychiatrist, but is interested in meeting with a psychiatrist at the Counseling Center, their therapist will review this request with the Counseling Center psychiatrist before scheduling an appointment. Depending on your specific needs, our staff may also help you find a psychiatrist or other provider off campus.















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













