 












                            Case Management | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











Case Management
Connecting Students to the Resources They Need
The Counseling Center provides a variety of services, but we can't do everything. Our case management team helps students discover and navigate mental health services and other resources across campus and in their community.






            Establishing Care with Community Providers
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Students sometimes need or want mental health services that the Counseling Center doesn’t provide such as open-ended or long-term individual therapy, specialized services, or more intensive treatment programs. Many students also want to find other services after ending treatment at the Counseling Center. In these situations, our case management team is available to help students through the entire process of establishing care with a community provider. Some of the many factors we take into account when providing referrals include:

Your specific concerns and treatment goals
Insurance and financial resources
Location and transportation needs (e.g., help finding a provider close to your home or campus)
Preferences for virtual or in-person services
Your preferences for providers with specific identities, cultural backgrounds, or languages spoken

After receiving a list of providers who may be a good fit, some students prefer to get connected on their own. Others prefer some more support or guidance. Our case management team is there to help you with:

Making initial calls and reaching out to providers
Transferring any requested paperwork or treatment information from the Counseling Center to your new provider, as needed
Preparing for your initial appointment

If you begin treatment and find that it’s not working out for any reason, you can always come back to your case manager and we’ll continue to help you until you find the services that are right for you.



      Community Provider Database
    








            Bridge Care, Benefits, & Navigating Other Services
          Heading link



 
Copy link





Applying for Benefits

There are many external factors that affect our mental health, such as access to housing, food, and other financial resources. Our case managers can assist you with applications for benefits like Medicaid, SNAP (formerly food stamps), and other resources. We can also help connect you with resources on campus for students who need emergency financial assistance, housing, food, or other basic needs.



Bridge Care

Our case management team also provides bridge care for students in acute crisis who are referred for services outside the Counseling Center after their initial consultation. Bridge care involves meeting with a crisis intervention specialist, usually on a weekly basis, to help you stay safe and cope with immediate stressors while waiting to get connected to longer-term care.



Navigating Services across Campus

The Counseling Center is just one part of UIC’s strong network of resources to support student wellbeing. Our case managers are well-versed in the services provided by other offices across campus and can provide referrals to these offices to help meet your specific needs. Whether you’re looking for tutoring through the African American Academic Network, food from the Wellness Center’s pop-up pantry, accommodations from the Disability Resource Center, or any other services across campus, our case managers can help you find what you’re looking for.









            Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link














Apply for Benefits






Check icon






Student Assistance






Document icon









Insurance 101






People Icon


 
Community Provider Database






Map pin icon






More Campus Resources







        Earth icon
    




 
Additional Community Resources









            Meet Our Case Managers
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            David  Kasher
                    

                Case Manager
            












                            Liz  Rosario
                    

                Case Manager
            












                            Luis G. Salas
                    

                Case Manager
            




















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













