 












                            Coping with Violence on College Campuses | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











Coping with Violence on College Campuses


Posted on November 18, 2022


On November 13th, two college communities across the country were devastated – at the University of Virginia, Devin Chandler, Lavel Davis, Jr., and D’Sean Perry were killed in an act of gun violence, and at the University of Idaho, Madison Mogen, Kaylee Goncalves, Xana Kernodle, and Ethan Chapin were found killed in a home near campus. We grieve with the families and communities impacted by the loss of these students.
We understand that many valid feelings can arise in response to events like these, including shock, numbness, anger, sadness, and fear. We want to acknowledge that these feelings are normal and that such tragedies can also be a reminder of other times in your life when you have felt unsafe.
During times of distress, it can help to acknowledge and work through our feelings:

Building Resilience to Manage Indirect Exposure to Terror
Managing Distress in the Aftermath of a Shooting

Even though firearms and other weapons are prohibited on UIC’s campus, news of violence on college campuses can also bring up feelings of anxiety or fear about attending classes or spending time on our own campus. If this sounds like you, we hope you will consider the following resources for safety at UIC:

Active Threat Preparedness
Night Ride
Safe Mobile App 
UIC Ready
UIC Violence Prevention Plan

We are aware that feelings of safety can be directly impacted by our identities and the identities of those around us. During the time of distress, your cultural resources and community can be a source of strength and support. They might provide you with coping and reassurance. We understand that when it comes to you safety concerns, you might not want to involve the police. If you do not feel comfortable involving police in your safety concern, consider these alternatives.
If you’re looking to talk with someone for brief support, we invite you to join us in a drop-in space or a single-session appointment to process your reactions to current events. For more ongoing support, check out our peer support groups or call us at 312-996-3490 for an initial consultation.
For additional information on violence prevention:

Empowering Communities to Prevent Mass Shootings
What Do We Know about Preventing Gun Violence?
















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













