 












                            In the Aftermath of Gun Violence | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











In the Aftermath of Gun Violence


Posted on July 07, 2022


With heaviness in our hearts, the UIC Counseling Center staff again acknowledges a seemingly relentless series of devastating violence in our nation. This past weekend alone, more than 220 people were killed by gun violence in the United States of America, including Jayland Walker, an unarmed black man killed by police in Akron, Ohio and seven parade spectators in nearby Highland Park, Illinois.
While the national attention, support, and compassion towards those impacted by the latter is warranted, the Counseling Center wants to recognize the gun violence that happens frequently in Chicagoland and specifically in our predominantly black and brown communities. The lack of similar support and compassion shown towards these marginalized communities is another manifestation of systemic white supremacy. We would also like to acknowledge the preferential treatment of alleged perpetrators in this oppressive system when there are not black or brown individuals involved. We condemn the vastly different police, media, and public response that perpetuates stereotypes and miscarriages of justice.
As mental health professionals, we understand that this is so much to process, especially when compounded with other recent events such as the overturning of Roe v. Wade and other legislative threats to the rights of womxn and the LGBTQ+ community. You may be feeling overwhelmed, activated, numb, fearful, rageful – any and all of these are valid responses to being inundated with a stream of traumatizing news, whether it touches on your own trauma history or is opening your eyes to what Governor Pritzker calls the “uniquely American plague” of gun violence.
Please know that you are not alone – we encourage you to join with the safe and supportive communities in your life for comfort, coping, and reassurance. If you’re looking to talk with someone for brief support, we invite you to join us in a drop-in space or a single-session appointment to process your reactions to current events. For more ongoing support, check out our peer support groups or call us at 312-996-3490 for an initial consultation.
For Further Reading
24-hour Crisis Line for Individuals Impacted by Gun Violence
Coping After Mass Violence
Parent Guidelines for Helping Youth after a Recent Shooting
Pause, Reset, Nourish
Resources for Children, Families, Educators, and Community Members After Mass Shootings
Resources for Victims and Survivors of Gun Violence
Responding to Racism
UIC Cultural Centers




Modified on July 07, 2022













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













