 












                            Sistla, Aravinda Prasad | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 















Aravinda Prasad Sistla
Professor

Department of Computer Science









Contact 

Building & Room:
1100 SEO


Address:
851 S. Morgan St, MC 152, Chicago, IL, 60607


Office Phone:
(312) 996-8779


Email:
sistla@uic.edu


Related Sites:


Curriculum Vitae
dblp list of publications
Google Scholar Profile












About

I am interested in the following areas of research:
 
Formal Methods in Concurrent and Distributed Systems
With the widespread use of distributed and concurrent systems and with the increase in the complexity of software for such systems, it becomes important to develop various methods for ensuring the quality of concurrent software systems. I am interested in various methods for static as well as runtime verification of such computer systems.
As part of the static verification, I am interested model checking based methods for analysis and verification of deterministic as well as probabilistic systems. My early works in this area included the earliest work that gave a linear time model checking algorithm that checks whether the reachability graph of a concurrent program, given as a Kripke structure, satisfies a property specified in the branching time temporal logic CTL. These works also included results on the complexity of model checking and satisfiability checking for specifications given in Linear Temporal Logic, LTL. They also gave methods that employ symmetry reductions for ameliorating the state explosion problem in explicit state model checking algorithms. The later results were implemented in Symmetry based Model Checker (SMC) for checking safety and liveness properties.  I also gave the earliest decidability result on model checking parameterized system of processes, i.e., checking if a system of processes composed of an arbitrary number of processes, satisfies a property specified in LTL.
As part of the run time verification, I am interested in methods for detecting faults at execution time when the faults are specified on the underlying computations of the system in expressive languages such as temporal logic and automata. The developed methods can be used for run time verification of partially observable stochastic systems. An application of these methods is for safe deployment and operation of Cyber Physical Systems such as Autonomous cars, Home assist robots, etc. These methods employ Hidden Markov Models for capturing the behavior of such systems and develop accurate and timely monitors for detecting erroneous behavior in such systems.
Security
My interests in security are broadly focussed in two directions. The first direction is on exploring model checking based techniques for analyzing access control policies, for verifying randomized security/cryptographic protocols and for verifying privacy claims of differential privacy mechanisms.  The second direction is towards developing program transformation techniques for preventing leakage of confidential information.
Database Management Systems
My earlier work in database systems include work on specification and processing of queries in moving object databases, active databases and textual databases. My current interests continue to be in these sub-areas of database management systems.
List of Publications
List of my publications can be obtained using the link dblp , or  the link Google Scholar Profile or my vitae c.v..



Education

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts: Ph.D. Computer Science/Applied Mathematics, 1983
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India: M.E. Computer Science, 1976
National Institute of Technology, Warangal, India, B.Tech., Electronics and Communications Engineering, 1974
















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












