 












                            In Response to Dobbs vs. Jackson Women's Health Organization | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











In Response to Dobbs vs. Jackson Women’s Health Organization


Posted on June 30, 2022


On June 24, 2022, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its ruling in the case Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization. This decision overturned the precedent of Roe v. Wade, which guaranteed constitutional protection for abortion rights, and the right to privacy, in the United States since 1973.
This ruling was issued in the context of centuries of historical oppression against women. We at the Counseling Center recognize the disproportionate impact of this ruling, especially on BIPOC communities, people with fewer financial resources, immigrants, people with disabilities, young individuals, and LGBTQ people. This ruling also threatens the protection of marriage equality, LGBTQ civil rights, gender affirming care, and access to contraception for all women. 
Consistent with our mission and values, the Counseling Center speaks out against policies that negatively and disproportionately impact people who are already marginalized and oppressed. As mental healthcare providers, we value the individual’s right to safety and self-determination. We support an individual's right to have the freedom to make decisions about their own reproductive health and have equitable access to health care.
As mental healthcare providers, we are mindful of the psychological impact of this ruling on our UIC students. We want to acknowledge that people may have a range of reactions to this news, including anger, grief, fear, uncertainty, and despair. At times like these, past experiences of trauma related to oppression might also get activated. All of these reactions are a normal response to a stressful situation. It is important to seek support, whether from friends, loved ones, cultural communities, and/or mental health professionals.
We will continue to support the mental health needs of all of our UIC students who are impacted by today’s ruling–especially women, transgender men, and anyone who can become pregnant. If you need mental health support and resources the Counseling Center offers a single session appointment, initial consultation, individual and group therapies, drop-in-spaces, workshops, and community referral options. Provided below are additional resources.
Reproductive Healthcare Resources at UIC

Center for Reproductive Health at UI Health
Women’s Leadership and Resource Center
Wellness Center
Campus Care (covers abortion and contraception)

Additional Resources

Local abortion care and pregnancy prevention resources
Learn about the historical context for today’s decision
Learn more about reproductive healthcare laws in Illinois
Register to vote
The Facts about Abortion and Mental Health
















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













