 












                            Coping with Grief, Tragedy, and Loss | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











Coping with Grief, Tragedy, and Loss


Posted on May 19, 2022


Endings, goodbyes, grief, and loss are in the air at UIC as the spring semester comes to a close.
We grieve the shocking deaths of two of our own students, Brittany Kinlow and Natally Brookson. We also cope with the uncertainty of the continued search to find missing student, Daniel Sotelo.
We grieve the violent, transphobic murder of Tatiana Labelle and the tragic death of Black trans liberation leader Elise Malary this spring, two incredibly important figures in Chicago’s LGBTQ+ community.
We grieve for Aaron Salter, Ruth Whitfield, Pearly Young, Katherine Massey, Deacon Heyward Patterson, Celestine Chaney, Roberta A. Drury, Margus D. Morrison, Andre Mackneil, and Geraldine Talley, whose ruthless murders were motivated by white supremacy this past weekend in Buffalo, NY.
We grieve for the hatred that fueled shootings against Korean and Taiwanese communities in Dallas and Laguna Woods, resulting in the tragic murder of Dr. John Cheng.
Since initially writing this statement, we woefully amend to include the incomprehensible murders of 19 children and 2 teachers at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas. We grieve and grieve and grieve for the lives of Alexandria Aniyah Rubio, Alithia Ramirez, Amerie Jo Garza, Annabell Guadalupe Rodriguez, Eliahana Cruz Torres, Eliana "Ellie" Garcia, Eva Mireles, Irma Garcia, Jackie Cazares, Jailah Nicole Silguero, Jayce Luevanos, Jose Flores, Layla Salazar, Makenna Lee Elrod, Maite Rodriguez, Miranda Mathis, Nevaeh Bravo, Rojelio Torres, Tess Marie Mata, Uziyah Garcia, and Xavier Lopez.
The UIC Counseling Center would like to acknowledge the impact of these losses in our community and the problematic, systemic issues that dovetail with them all. We grieve for all those impacted by gun violence, hate crimes, and terror that continue to happen day after day in this country and that disproportionately impact communities of color. We condemn the hatred, phobias, misogyny, unjust legislation, and intimate and systemic violence that inflicts pain, suffering, and death for womxn, LGBTQ+ folx,  ethnically marginalized communities, and - directly or indirectly - the children of our nation.
These sudden, tragic, and violent deaths can bring up sadness, worry, and activate past losses or traumas. Our grief at the Counseling Center also encompasses feelings of anger and injustice, and perhaps yours does too. If you find that you are struggling with these feelings and that your usual coping strategies are not working, you are not alone.
Dealing with loss can be challenging and exhausting, and you might wonder how to continue living your daily life while processing your loss. You might need time to find your own way of coping, but we hope you remember that all of the feelings you experience are valid. We want to honor your feelings, invite you to do the same, and encourage you to take care of yourself during this challenging time.
Grieving, processing, and understanding loss can be individual and community processes. Some of us might feel better to connect with others, while some might want to grieve individually. If you would like to connect with others as you cope, try talking with your support system, community, or trusted friends, or connect with your cultural resources and practice. This connection can be very powerful and reminds us that we are not alone in this loss. If you prefer to process the loss in your own pace and in a confidential space, please know that the Counseling Center is here to support you in this journey. We offer both individual and group therapy – give us a call at 312-996-3490 to schedule an initial teleconsultation, and we can talk about what feels right for you. We also offer weekly drop-in spaces where you can explore loss and cope with grief.
Spaces for Support at the Counseling Center
Group Therapies (Including Women of Color Group, LGBTQ Group, and Trans, Non-Binary, and Gender Expansive Group)
Virtual Drop-In Spaces
Peer Support Groups
Individual Therapy
For Further Reading/Listening
APA President’s Response to Buffalo Shooting
Coping in the Aftermath of a Shooting
Coping with LGBT Discrimination
Grief and Finding Meaning
Grief and Loss
Grief Journaling Prompts
Parent Support for Coping after the Recent Shooting
Resources for Victims and Survivors of Gun Violence
Responding to Racism
Community Resources
Blackline
Brave Space Alliance
Grief Support Group – Journey Care
GriefShare Support Groups
Howard Brown Health
Local Resources for Victims and Survivors of Gun Violence
Parenting Support Groups in Chicago
The Loveland Foundation
Loving Outreach to Survivors of Suicide
Campus Resources
African American Cultural Center
African American Academic Network
Arab American Cultural Center
Asian American Resource and Cultural Center
Campus Advocacy Network
Disability Cultural Center
Gender and Sexuality Center
Latin American Recruitment and Educational Services
Latino Cultural Center
Wellness Center
Women’s Leadership and Resource Center




Modified on May 27, 2022













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













