 












                            Response to the Invasion of Ukraine | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











Response to the Invasion of Ukraine


Posted on February 24, 2022


The Counseling Center staff would like to recognize the impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Our hearts go out to the Ukrainian members of our UIC community, their families and loved ones, and all those who are in Ukraine during this period of needless violence. Our thoughts are also with the many Russians who stand opposed to this violence and all those who may be directly or indirectly impacted.
 
While we watch this violence unfold, we recognize the range of reactions it can bring up. It is normal to feel a mix of emotions including fear, anger, sadness, and powerlessness. You may have trouble sleeping or concentrating. For those who have experienced violence or war, it may bring up upsetting or frightening memories. We also acknowledge the fear that can come with living and learning in a major city during a time of global unrest and escalating conflict. We hope that you will be gentle with yourself and make space to prioritize your mental health at this time.
 
The Counseling Center has recently worked to expand our services that students can use on an as-needed basis with little to no wait time so that we can respond more rapidly to unpredictable events that can impact students’ mental health. One way we’re doing this is by expanding our weekly virtual drop-in spaces that students can register for online and use on an as-needed basis. Some spaces that may be especially relevant right now include:

Open drop-in spaces on Mondays and Wednesdays at 12:00pm CT
Grief & Loss Space on Wednesdays at 1:00pm CT
International, Undocumented, & Immigrant Student Space on Tuesdays at 4:00pm CT

 
If you aren’t sure where to begin or would like to learn more about the range of other services we offer, you can call us at (312) 996-3490 or check out our Getting Started page for more information.
 
We also encourage faculty, staff, and administration to join us in recognizing the impact that this situation may have on students’ mental health and explore ways to provide grace and support to those students who may be struggling right now. Faculty and staff who are interested in learning more about how they can support students’ mental health are encouraged to attend one of our upcoming “Helping Students” workshops designed for UIC faculty and staff.




Modified on February 25, 2022













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













