 












                            Neurodivergent Drop-In Space | Counseling Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Counseling Center

Main Menu




        About
      




        Services
      




        Crisis
      




        Online Resources
      




        Outreach and Education
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology
                




                  Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
                




                  Post-Doctoral Fellowship
                




                  United Support Network Paraprofessional Program
                








Eyebrow menu


U&I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Counseling Center
              











Nov
29
2022

Neurodivergent Drop-In Space
Neurodivergent Drop-In Spaces



          November 29 - December 20, 2022

    


            2:00 PM - 2:50 PM
            
     



Location
Virtual via Zoom


Register 
https://go.uic.edu/NeurodivergentDropIn


Calendar
Download iCal File



Welcome to your Neurodivergent Drop-In Space, UIC! This space is a partnership between the UIC Counseling Center and the UIC Disability Cultural Center (dcc.uic.edu), a Center for Cultural Understanding and Social Change. For Fall 2022, this space is hosted by Dr. Margaret Fink of the DCC.
Eligibility: The Neurodivergent Drop-In Space is a weekly space open to all students who identify as neurodivergent. This includes students who are autistic or who have ADHD, sensory processing disorder, Tourette’s, or another learning disability (dyslexia, dyscalculia, dyspraxia, dysgraphia, etc.). You do not need to have a formal diagnosis to participate in this space, and students who are questioning whether they may be neurodivergent are invited to participate as well. You do not need to have a specific concern related to being a neurodivergent student to use this space. Though you are not committed to attending every week and may "drop in" on whatever week(s) work for you, we do require registration so that we can ensure that these safe spaces are attended by UIC students only.
More Information: This space adheres to a strengths-based, neurodiversity-affirming model and provides a welcoming environment for neurodivergent students. Students are encouraged to come as they are, and you can take off the mask, stim, infodump, use AAC, and engage in special interests (or learn what these terms mean!) to your heart’s content. We also discuss topics like self-advocacy in the classroom and healthcare settings, building relationships, testing and accommodations, and challenges of navigating a world designed for neurotypical people.
We will have auto-captions enabled in these meetings. If there is anything we can do to make this space more accessible, or if you have specific questions about this space, please contact Dr. Fink at mfink3@uic.edu.
*Please note that there will be no meeting on Tuesday, November 8th in observance of Election Day.


Contact
Margaret Fink

mfink3@uic.edu



Date posted
Mar 29, 2022


Date updated
Nov 23, 2022
















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts








Contact
 UIC Counseling Center
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645


 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













