 












                            About Us | Wellness Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Wellness Center

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  Need Help?
                




                  Contact
                




                  Services FAQs
                









        Alcohol & Drug Edu.
      


Expand Alcohol & Drug Edu. menu











                  Alcohol Edu.
                




                  E-CHUG
                




                  Drug Edu.
                









        Self-Care
      


Expand Self-Care menu











                  Caring For Your Flame
                




                  Need Answers? Sign-Up For Our Listserv!
                




                  Resources for the 8 Dimensions of Wellness
                




                  Stress Management
                




                  Relationships and Sex
                




                  Sleep
                




                  Studying
                




                  Conflict Management
                









        Services
      


Expand Services menu











                  Calendar of Events
                




                  Housing Insecurity Assistance
                




                  Pop-Up Pantry
                




                  Workshops
                




                  Wellness Coaching
                




                  Wellness Supplies
                




                  Service FAQs
                









        Workshops
      


Expand Workshops menu











                  Workshops Offered
                




                  Request a Workshop
                









        Policies
      


Expand Policies menu











                  Alcohol and Other Drug
                




                  Smoke Free Campus Policy and Fine Payment
                




                  Student Disciplinary Policy
                




                  Cannabis Policy
                




                  E-Scooters On-Campus
                








Eyebrow menu


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Wellness Center
              









About Us





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












About Us
Who Are We?
The Wellness Center is the place for your health education and promotion needs! We provide accurate and relevant health and wellness information, educational programs and events, and skill-building activities and workshops to the UIC community. We encourage students, staff, and faculty to make healthy choices that integrate knowledge and understanding with their personal values while maintaining a responsibility to the community.
Our Mission
The mission of the Wellness Center is to support student learning, academic success, and retention by providing wellness services that promote healthy attitudes and behaviors, empower students to make informed choices and enhance holistic well-being.





            Our Mission
          Heading link



 
Copy link









Wellness is not just the absence of illness; it is an active process of awareness by making healthy choices that impact a person holistically. The Wellness Center addresses 8 dimensions of wellness to support a healthy and well-rounded individual.   The 8 dimensions of wellness are: emotional, environmental, intellectual, physical, sexual, occupational, social, and spiritual.



  UIC Wellness Center
  









            8 Dimensions of Wellness
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Physical: The physically well person eats when hungry and selects a varied and nutritionally balanced diet. They also get an adequate amount of sleep, engages in moderate to vigorous exercise 3-5 times a week, get routine medical check-ups appropriate to their age and risk factors, and takes safety precautions.
 Occupational: The occupationally well person fulfills a socially defined role that is both stimulating and inherently rewarding. They choose a role (or several roles) that are consistent with beliefs, goals, lifestyle, personality and values.
Spiritual: The spiritually well person displays a sense of purpose in life and makes life choices with integrity. They acknowledges a higher power of some kind, and engages in prayer, meditation or other means of connecting to humanity.
Environmental: The environmentally well person recognizes the earth’s preciousness, and strives to minimize wasteful consumption or unnecessary destruction of animals, plant, elements or energy. They engage in recycling and conservation, protect natural resources, and strives for living spaces free of health hazards.
Financial: The financially well person takes a responsibility is their personal finances and is always mindful of their spending. This person always lives within their means. This person is not just concerned about the “here and now” but they are also concerned and take an active role in saving for their future.
 Social: The socially well person has a network of friends and family to whom they can turn to for support, validation and sharing of life experiences. These relationships are based on interdependence (rather than codependence), mutual trust and respect, equity of power and cultural competence.
Intellectual: The intellectually well person values education and engages in lifelong learning, and pursues activities that increase knowledge, develop moral reasoning, foster critical thinking and expand worldviews. In addition, they appreciate the fine arts, and values intuition, empathy and understanding as forms of knowing.
Emotional/Sexual: The sexually well person accepts his or her sexual orientation, engages in sexual relationships that are consistent with his or her values and development, and refrains from using sex to manipulate or influence others. In addition, they minimize unwanted consequences through communication and protection. The emotionally well person is able to appropriately express and manage the entire range of feelings, including anger, fear, happiness and sadness. They possesses high self- esteem, a sense of humor, and positive body image. This person also seeks support from a mental health professional when needed.



      8 Dimensions of Wellness Resources
    










About Us


Back to main content









Need Help? 

Contact 

Services FAQs 













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Suite 238 750 S Halsted Street  Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2120
wellnesscenter@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












