 












                            FAQs | Wellness Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Wellness Center

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  Need Help?
                




                  Contact
                




                  Services FAQs
                









        Alcohol & Drug Edu.
      


Expand Alcohol & Drug Edu. menu











                  Alcohol Edu.
                




                  E-CHUG
                




                  Drug Edu.
                









        Self-Care
      


Expand Self-Care menu











                  Caring For Your Flame
                




                  Need Answers? Sign-Up For Our Listserv!
                




                  Resources for the 8 Dimensions of Wellness
                




                  Stress Management
                




                  Relationships and Sex
                




                  Sleep
                




                  Studying
                




                  Conflict Management
                









        Services
      


Expand Services menu











                  Calendar of Events
                




                  Housing Insecurity Assistance
                




                  Pop-Up Pantry
                




                  Workshops
                




                  Wellness Coaching
                




                  Wellness Supplies
                




                  Service FAQs
                









        Workshops
      


Expand Workshops menu











                  Workshops Offered
                




                  Request a Workshop
                









        Policies
      


Expand Policies menu











                  Alcohol and Other Drug
                




                  Smoke Free Campus Policy and Fine Payment
                




                  Student Disciplinary Policy
                




                  Cannabis Policy
                




                  E-Scooters On-Campus
                








Eyebrow menu


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Wellness Center
              









FAQs





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Wellness Center


About Us


FAQs






Frequent Asked Questions (FAQs)






            ve
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Where is the Wellness Center located? 

Student Center East
750 S. Halsted Street suite 238
Chicago, Il 60607

 
How do I contact the Wellness Center? 

Phone: 312-413-2120
Email: wellnesscenter@uic.edu
Web: wellnesscenter.uic.edu

 
What are the Wellness Center hours? 

Monday through Friday 8:30am to 5:00pm

 
The Wellness Center sometimes is confused with other departments. It’s important to know the Center does not offer:

Medical services
Therapy / Counseling Services
Dental services

 
What is the overall mission of the Wellness Center?
The overall mission of the Wellness Center is to provide students with health and wellness education and to help encourage healthy and safer lifestyle choices.
 
How is the Wellness Center adapting their events to COVID? 
Amidst COVID-19, we have adopted a hybrid experience and services. For the safety of our staff, all workshops have moved online as well as our Wellness Coaching sessions. Our office and Pantry, on the other hand, have remained in-person utilizing COVID 19 safety precautions, for example, wearing masks and gloves and sanitizing materials consistently. We also have few in-person events for UIC students to foster a sense of community and take care of themselves.
 
How do the individual consultations/ Wellness Coaching session work in the Wellness Center?
First, it is important to know that Wellness Coaching is not therapy. We are health educators, not therapists. The Counseling Center, are mental health experts are the appropriate department to reach out to for therapy/counseling. Wellness Coaching is a one-time 60-minute session that helps students problem-solve through a variety of life and academic challenges like: time management, stress management, college transition, healthy eating, self-care, and/or conflict management. Our Wellness Coaching sessions are with a health educator via Zoom or phone. Students who utilize this service walk away with concrete solutions that they can immediately put to use. To schedule, an appointment fill out the Individual Consultation form on our website here: https://wellnesscenter.uic.edu/resources-and-services/individual-consultations/.
 
How do I know when Wellness Center events are?
Email the Wellness Center to be a part of our WellFlames Listserv to receive daily health education information as well as updates to any Wellness Center news such as Pantry dates and programming events. To learn more about our events please also, feel free to check the Wellness Center website, and UIC Life Instagram account as events will be posted periodically.
 
Can you provide a rough list of all the programming and services the wellness center has?

Academic Workshops: to educate students on various topics like good studying habits and managing stress
Lifestyle Workshops: such as safe sex, conflict management, building healthy relationships, and much more to build healthy behaviors and attitudes
Emergency supplies: such as band-aids, tissues, and cough drops
Pop-Up Pantry: for registered UIC students experiencing food insecurity
Individual Consultations/ Wellness Coaching: sessions with a Health Educator to problem solve lifestyle challenges like: time management, stress management, college transition, or healthy eating
Giveaways, DIY projects, Self Care events 
Comprehensive Website: On the Wellness Center website, there are multiple external resources and videos to help you succeed academically and become well-rounded individuals
E-Advice “Dear Wellbe”
E-Magazine
WellFlames Listserv 

 
 
How does the Pop-up Pantry work?
Co-founded in 2014 by the Wellness Center, the Pop-Up Pantry was created to help students who are missing meals and going hungry due to not having enough money. The Pop- up Pantry is open on Wednesdays and Thursdays from 1-4pm to help registered UIC Students dealing with food insecurity. A quick registration is required prior to shopping the Pantry.

100% of the food in the Pantry comes from donations, so supplies are limited and may vary each week.
Shoppers will find: milk, bread, eggs, fruit, vegetables, cereal, dried rice/pasta/potatoes, and canned items. (Supplies may vary)
The pantry is temporarily located on the 6th floor of Student Center East (SCE)
On pantry day, you must bring your I-card and your own grocery bags.
Practice Covid- 19 safety precautions by wearing a mask (required to shop), standing on marked blue lines to maintain social distancing, and use hand sanitizer (upon arrival and departure).
Once there, you will receive a basket and check in with a swipe of your I-card.
When shopping, you have 8 points to shop (shelves are labeled), and you will check out with the student worker when finished. You will proceed to the bagging tables to pack your items (students must bring their own grocery bags).
The Pantry is exclusively for registered UIC Students experiencing life emergencies or financial difficulties.
For more information, visit our Pop Up Pantry tab on our website.

 
 
 








About Us


Back to main content









Need Help? 

Contact 

Services FAQs 













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Suite 238 750 S Halsted Street  Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2120
wellnesscenter@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












