 












                            Resources for the 8 Dimensions of Wellness | Wellness Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Wellness Center

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  Need Help?
                




                  Contact
                




                  Services FAQs
                









        Alcohol & Drug Edu.
      


Expand Alcohol & Drug Edu. menu











                  Alcohol Edu.
                




                  E-CHUG
                




                  Drug Edu.
                









        Self-Care
      


Expand Self-Care menu











                  Caring For Your Flame
                




                  Need Answers? Sign-Up For Our Listserv!
                




                  Resources for the 8 Dimensions of Wellness
                




                  Stress Management
                




                  Relationships and Sex
                




                  Sleep
                




                  Studying
                




                  Conflict Management
                









        Services
      


Expand Services menu











                  Calendar of Events
                




                  Housing Insecurity Assistance
                




                  Pop-Up Pantry
                




                  Workshops
                




                  Wellness Coaching
                




                  Wellness Supplies
                




                  Service FAQs
                









        Workshops
      


Expand Workshops menu











                  Workshops Offered
                




                  Request a Workshop
                









        Policies
      


Expand Policies menu











                  Alcohol and Other Drug
                




                  Smoke Free Campus Policy and Fine Payment
                




                  Student Disciplinary Policy
                




                  Cannabis Policy
                




                  E-Scooters On-Campus
                








Eyebrow menu


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Wellness Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Resources for the 8 Dimensions of Wellness


Posted on January 13, 2021




Share this on Facebook








Share this on Twitter











Take a look below for resources that fall under each dimension of Wellness!






            Physical:
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The physically well person eats when hungry and selects a varied and nutritionally balanced diet. They also get an adequate amount of sleep, engages in moderate to vigorous exercise 3-5 times a week, get routine medical check-ups appropriate to their age and risk factors, and takes safety precautions.
 



      Campus Recreation
    



      Staying Fit at Home
    



      Family Medicine
    



      UIC Pharmacy
    



      Nutrition Resources
    



      Nourish: A Guide to Building a Healthy Meal
    



      Food Safety Resources
    



      General Wellness
    



      Are You Getting Your 7 Hours of Sleep?
    



      Resources for the Student-Parent
    



      Student Assistance and Support Referral Report
    



      Basic Needs
    








            Occupational:
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The occupationally well person fulfills a socially defined role that is both stimulating and inherently rewarding. They choose a role (or several roles) that are consistent with beliefs, goals, lifestyle, personality and values.
 



      UIC Career Services
    



      UIC Student Employment
    



      Career Devlopment
    



      Becoming an Entrepreneur
    



      Time Management
    








            Spiritual:
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The spiritually well person displays a sense of purpose in life and makes life choices with integrity. They acknowledge a higher power of some kind, and engages in prayer, meditation or other means of connecting to humanity.
 



      Spiritual/ Religious resources
    



      Self-Care Caring for Your Flame
    



      Counseling Center
    



      Mindfulness
    



      Well Track App
    



      Chicagoland Mental Health Resources
    








            Environmental:
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The environmentally well person recognizes the earth’s preciousness, and strives to minimize wasteful consumption or unnecessary destruction of animals, plant, elements or energy. They engage in recycling and conservation, protect natural resources, and strives for living spaces free of health hazards.
 



      Environment Resource Tools
    



      UIC Sustainability
    



      General Wellness
    



      UIC SAFE
    








            Financial:
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The financially well person takes a responsibility is their personal finances and is always mindful of their spending. This person always lives within their means. This person is not just concerned about the “here and now” but they are also concerned and take an active role in saving for their future.



      UIC Financial Aid
    



      Student Money Management Center
    



      UIC SnAP Scholarships
    



      Financial Concerns Form
    



      Food Insecurity UIC Pop-Up Pantry
    



      Housing Insecurity
    



      Financial Literacy Resources
    



      Resources for the Student Parent
    



      UIC Basic Needs Request/Resources
    



      UIC Career Services
    








            Social:
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The socially well person has a network of friends and family to whom they can turn to for support, validation and sharing of life experiences. These relationships are based on interdependence (rather than codependence), mutual trust and respect, equity of power and cultural competence.



      UIC Diversity
    



      Center for Student Involvement
    



      Conflict Management
    



      Bias Reporting Tool
    








            Intellectual:
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The intellectually well person values education and engages in lifelong learning, and pursues activities that increase knowledge, develop moral reasoning, foster critical thinking and expand worldviews. In addition, they appreciate the fine arts, and values intuition, empathy and understanding as forms of knowing.



      Flames Tutoring Network
    



      ACE
    



      Wellness Coaching
    



      Study Tips
    



      UIC Library
    



      UIC Suceeds (ADHD Resource)
    








            Emotional/Sexual:
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The sexually well person accepts their sexual orientation, engages in sexual relationships that are consistent with their values and development, and refrains from using sex to manipulate or influence others. In addition, they minimize unwanted consequences through communication and protection. The emotionally well person is able to appropriately express and manage the entire range of feelings, including anger, fear, happiness and sadness. They possess high self- esteem, a sense of humor, and positive body image. This person also seeks support from a mental health professional when needed.



      Sexual Health/ Healthy Relationships
    



      Gender and Sexuality Center
    



      Counseling Center
    



      Stress Management
    



      Well Track App
    



      Mental Health Resources On or Near Campus
    



      Chicagoland Community Mental Health Resources
    



      National Mental Health Resources
    



      Understanding Your Mental Health Insurance Benefits
    






Modified on November 09, 2021













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Suite 238 750 S Halsted Street  Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2120
wellnesscenter@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












