 












                            Request a Workshop | Wellness Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    




































































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Wellness Center

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  Need Help?
                




                  Contact
                




                  Services FAQs
                









        Alcohol & Drug Edu.
      


Expand Alcohol & Drug Edu. menu











                  Alcohol Edu.
                




                  E-CHUG
                




                  Drug Edu.
                









        Self-Care
      


Expand Self-Care menu











                  Caring For Your Flame
                




                  Need Answers? Sign-Up For Our Listserv!
                




                  Resources for the 8 Dimensions of Wellness
                




                  Stress Management
                




                  Relationships and Sex
                




                  Sleep
                




                  Studying
                




                  Conflict Management
                









        Services
      


Expand Services menu











                  Calendar of Events
                




                  Housing Insecurity Assistance
                




                  Pop-Up Pantry
                




                  Workshops
                




                  Wellness Coaching
                




                  Wellness Supplies
                




                  Service FAQs
                









        Workshops
      


Expand Workshops menu











                  Workshops Offered
                




                  Request a Workshop
                









        Policies
      


Expand Policies menu











                  Alcohol and Other Drug
                




                  Smoke Free Campus Policy and Fine Payment
                




                  Student Disciplinary Policy
                




                  Cannabis Policy
                




                  E-Scooters On-Campus
                








Eyebrow menu


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Wellness Center
              









Request a Workshop





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Wellness Center


Workshops


Request a Workshop






Request a Workshop






            Request a Workshop
          Heading link



 
Copy link





Thank you for your interest in our Wellness Center workshops!  We primarily serve student organizations, faculty, or staff who are instructors. Please read below for important information to know about requesting a workshop.
 


IMPORTANT
**Currently, all workshops are 45-50 minutes long and are available in-person or Zoom (Zoom is preferred)**

Please submit workshop requests at least (2) weeks in advance of your event date.
Please help us to keep our student presenters safe by scheduling in-person workshops no later than 5 pm. Anything after 5pm needs to be approved. If approved will be held via Zoom.
At this time, workshops are only available to students affiliated with the University of Illinois system
In order to request a workshop, there must be a minimum of 10-12 expected attendees
If the workshop is confirmed, a Wellness Center staff will send requestor an official “workshops confirmed” email. Only a confirmed email from Wellness Center staff confirms workshop request has been accepted and approved
**To respect the academic success of our student staff, we will not be accepting workshops 2 weeks prior to Finals

WORKSHOP GUIDELINES

Audience: Registered UIC students
A reserved room/classroom (quiet with no through traffic) [Not required if the workshop will be offered via Zoom]
A dedicated audience of UIC students (students who are regularly convened to attend an organizational meeting or class session)
Required audience size: 10-12 students or more
Technology in the room: laptop, screen, data projector, and USB adaptor or computer with USB port
Zoom recordings or slide sharing will not be permitted ( a post-workshop summary page will be shared with requestor/attendees)






            Workshop Request
          Heading link



 
Copy link




Disclaimer *  RequiredI have read the above "Important" information about the workshop request and the other resources before submitting this form. I understand that as a Requestor I am responsible for reserving a room with technological equipment such as a projector, a screen, and a laptop/computer linked to the projector. Likewise, as the requestor, I understand I am responsible for marketing the event and confirming 10-12 expected attendees. 

I also agree to notify the Presenter in case of cancelation and or any other workshop changes Yes, I UnderstandRequestor Name *  Required


First



Last

Requestor Phone NumberRequestor Email *  Required

Organization *  RequiredWorkshop Title (Please Refer to "Workshop Offered" List) *  RequiredDate  - must be mm/dd/yyyy format *  Required

Date Format: MM slash DD slash YYYY

Time *  Required

 :
HH



MM


AM/PM
AM
PM


Who is This Workshop For? *  RequiredUndergraduate StudentsGraduate StudentsWill This Workshop Be In-person or Zoom (Zoom is Preferred) *  RequiredIn-personZoomIf Selected In-person, Please Place Workshop Location (Building and Room #)If Selected Zoom, Please Place Zoom LinkAnticipated # of People (Minimum of 10-12 Attendees) *  RequiredPlease Select Which Option Best Applies to Workshop/ Workshop Attendees *  RequiredAthletesCampus HousingFraternity and Sorority LifeLecture SessionStudent OrganizationCAPTCHAEmailThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

  



















Workshops


Back to main content









Workshops Offered 

Request a Workshop 













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Suite 238 750 S Halsted Street  Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2120
wellnesscenter@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield


















