 












                            Cannabis Policy | Wellness Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Wellness Center

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  Need Help?
                




                  Contact
                




                  Services FAQs
                









        Alcohol & Drug Edu.
      


Expand Alcohol & Drug Edu. menu











                  Alcohol Edu.
                




                  E-CHUG
                




                  Drug Edu.
                









        Self-Care
      


Expand Self-Care menu











                  Caring For Your Flame
                




                  Need Answers? Sign-Up For Our Listserv!
                




                  Resources for the 8 Dimensions of Wellness
                




                  Stress Management
                




                  Relationships and Sex
                




                  Sleep
                




                  Studying
                




                  Conflict Management
                









        Services
      


Expand Services menu











                  Calendar of Events
                




                  Housing Insecurity Assistance
                




                  Pop-Up Pantry
                




                  Workshops
                




                  Wellness Coaching
                




                  Wellness Supplies
                




                  Service FAQs
                









        Workshops
      


Expand Workshops menu











                  Workshops Offered
                




                  Request a Workshop
                









        Policies
      


Expand Policies menu











                  Alcohol and Other Drug
                




                  Smoke Free Campus Policy and Fine Payment
                




                  Student Disciplinary Policy
                




                  Cannabis Policy
                




                  E-Scooters On-Campus
                








Eyebrow menu


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Wellness Center
              









Cannabis Policy





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Wellness Center


Policies


Cannabis Policy






Cannabis Policy
The University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) has a long-standing commitment to the support and maintenance of a drug-free environment for our students and employees. With the advent of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act going into effect on January 1, 2020, it is important to know that the legalization of marijuana and its related practices do not change UIC’s alcohol and other drug policies.
As a reminder, under the federal Controlled Substances Act, marijuana is classified as a Schedule 1 controlled substance and is illegal. Consistent with that Act and the federal Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act and the Drug-Free Workplace Act, the University prohibits the unlawful or unauthorized possession, use, distribution, dispensation, sale, or manufacture of marijuana on University property or as part of any University activity. The passage of the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act in 2019, which legalizes certain activities related to marijuana under Illinois state law effective January 1, 2020, does not affect federal law or the university’s marijuana prohibition.
In addition, the University’s marijuana prohibition applies to both recreational and medical use. That means having a medical marijuana registry identification card under the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act does not allow you to use or possess marijuana on University property (this includes but is not limited to outdoor spaces, classrooms, and residential halls) or as part of any University activity.
Compliance with these laws and acts represents the University commitment to maintaining a healthy learning and work environment. In addition, remaining in compliance helps to protect the millions of dollars in federal funding UIC receives for student financial aid and research.





Cannabis: Know the Facts








Policies


Back to main content









Alcohol and Other Drug 

Smoke Free Campus Policy and Fine Payment 


Smoke/Tobacco-Free at UIC 



Student Disciplinary Policy 

Cannabis Policy 

E-Scooters On-Campus 













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Suite 238 750 S Halsted Street  Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2120
wellnesscenter@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












