


















Explore UIC | UIC Admissions































 




Explore UIC
Visit Virtually
Apply
 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Explore UIC




About UIC
How and When to Apply
UIC Facts




 





Home
You are here
 

Home
You are here
 























Translations





Arabic



Chinese



Indonesian



Korean



Portuguese



Russian



Spanish



Thai



Turkish



Vietnamese

 





About Chicago's Public Research University 


Dream big. Work hard.
Get ready to do amazing things—inside and outside the classroom.
When you come to UIC, you’ll learn from faculty engaged in cutting-edge research and work alongside talented, driven students. You’ll meet people from all over the world and be part of a diverse, forward-thinking community that strives for achievement—and values giving back. You’ll experience life in the heart of the city. Join clubs. Find internships. You’ll discover your passion—and your purpose.
No matter what you accomplish, an innovative, research-driven education from UIC will inspire you to aim high, think deeply and look forward to a future with limitless possibilities.
 






Get Involved.We guarantee you’ll find something that interests you among UIC's hundreds of organizations, sports clubs and more.STUDENT LIFESTUDENT INVOLVEMENT



Live at UIC.More than 50 percent of our freshmen live in our residence halls, and statistics show these students are more likely to graduate—and in less time. But you don’t need to live on campus. Off-campus housing options and on-campus resources for commuters are available.CAMPUS HOUSINGCOMMUTING



Play hard.You’ll find plenty of action at UIC, both as a spectator and a participant.UIC FLAMESRECREATION & FITNESS



Go urban.Discover what it’s like to live and study in the heart of a world-class city.UIC AND CHICAGOCAREER SERVICES & INTERNSHIPS



Access excellence.Get ready for amazing opportunities at UIC—for research, volunteering, internships, and learning among the nation’s top scholars and professors.ACADEMIC PROGRAMSHONORS COLLEGEGUARANTEED PROFESSIONAL PROGRAM ADMISSIONS



Serve others.Want to make a difference in the world? People at UIC are doing it every day.SOCIAL JUSTICEENGAGEMENT

 





 






How and When to ApplyUndergraduateGraduate 












 Learn & EnjoyFill your college experience with growth, learning and a lot of fun. Check out the Student Affairs website to learn how we can help make it happen.
 


 





 Think TankThe Social Justice Portal Project is a collaborative movement-oriented think tank that brings together scholars, artists and activists to address the urgent questions of racial and social justice, and transformative change.
 


 







 The Windy CityChicago is the cultural and financial hub of the American Midwest, and the third largest city in the United States.
 


 





 Small Class SizeAt UIC, you'll enjoy a student-to-faculty ratio of 18:1, and more than 3/4 of undergraduate courses are taught by tenured faculty.
 


 







 Lots of TransfersApproximately 1,600 new transfer students join UIC every fall.
 


 





 Amenities IncludedAll rooms come fully furnished and include all basic utilities, free laundry and 24-hour security measures.
 


 







 In the neighborhoodTaylor Street features classic Italian cuisine at dozens of restaurants both old and new. Don’t miss out on Italian ice from Mario’s Italian Lemonade. (Insider tip: It’s only open from May to September).
 


 





 Real-World ExperienceOur close proximity to downtown—and many top businesses and organizations—gives UIC students an advantage in finding internships.
 


 







 Urban OasisDid you know that UIC is home to more than 5,000 trees, 469 solar panels, five green roofs and 800 bike racks?
 


 





 Get HiredLand a great internship or your dream job after graduation with help from the Office of Career Services.
 


 







 Nov. 1Apply by UIC's scholarship priority date to maximize your chances for scholarship consideration.
 


 





 Cha-ching!Last year, more than 79 percent of students received some form of grant or scholarship aid.
 


 







 We're GrowingAn institution of growing national and international stature, UIC received over $400 million dollars in federal research support this year.
 


 





 #9 Best Value UniversitiesTimes Higher Education and the Wall Street Journal have named UIC one of very best values in the U.S.—with particular strength in environment, engagement and outcomes. 
 


 







 Home at UICStudents who choose to live on campus are guaranteed housing for as long as they're enrolled.
 


 





 Academic SuccessA record-high 79 student-athletes were named to the Horizon League Honor Roll in 2020, earning a 3.55 GPA or higher.
 


 







 Top 5 CountriesTop five sending countries include India, China, Pakistan, South Korea and Vietnam.
 


 





 Top DestinationUIC is one of the top destinations for international students in the Midwest, and third in the state of Illinois.
 


 







 $450,000That’s the value of a UIC degree over 20 years. The 2021 Payscale.com ROI Report ranks UIC in the top 11 percent of U.S. universities in annual return on investment.
 


 





 Top Health ScienceUIC is the principal educator of health professionals in Illinois, and one of only four universities in the nation with a full complement of health science programs.
 


 







 Guaranteed Professional ProgramsUIC has a program that can guarantee admission to several professional programs, including law, pharmacy and physical therapy, to select first-year students. More information at gppa.uic.edu
 


 





 Top 50 UniversityUIC ranked 46th among the top 50 public universities in US News and World Report.
 


 







 Nursing LeadersWe educate some of the nation’s most sought-after nurses. UIC Nursing is ranked the 19th highest program in the nation by US News & World Report.
 


 





 Conveniently LocatedInternational students have access to two major international airports, connected to campus by Chicago’s subway systems. It’s easy for UIC students to travel across the globe.
 


 







 Room With a ViewMany spaces feature gorgeous skyline views—another perk of being right in the heart of the city.
 


 





 A Big ComebackThe UIC Flames are named in reference to the Great Chicago Fire as well as the progress, transformation, innovation and resurgence that came afterwards.
 


 







 MultilingualOver one-third of our undergraduate students are multilingual with 57 different languages represented on campus.
 


 





 Top Art SchoolUIC’s Fine Arts programs are ranked among the top 50 in the US by US News and World Report.
 


 







 We Heart TransfersUIC is one of the top destinations for transfer students in the state. Nearly 40 percent of the UIC student body began their education somewhere else.
 


 





 Honors CollegeEnhance your UIC academic experience. Students can apply for admission to the Honors College.
 


 







 Locked InYour tuition rate will not increase while you are a UIC student for up to four years.
 


 





 Get InvolvedExplore hundreds of student organizations through the Campus Programs office; deejay at UIC Radio; attend or help plan dozens of educational, cultural and fun campus events; and join a fraternity or sorority.
 


 







 FAFSA HintDon’t forget to use UIC’s Financial Aid code: 001776
 


 





 Historically SignificantUIC's Jane Addams Hull-House Museum consists of two of the original 13 buildings of one of the world's first social settlements.
 


 







 Learn To CodeUIC’s Computer Science program is ranked among the nation's best in US News and World Report.
 


 





 Public ArtTake a walk to see free public art on the Loop Art Tour featuring the Agora Sculpture in South Loop by Polish artist Magdalena Abakanowicz.
 


 







 Sports For AllUIC has 18 Division I sports teams and scores of club, recreational, and intramural teams.
 


 





 The Ultimate College TownChicago is a national higher education destination. Over a quarter million students are enrolled in the city’s more than 50 colleges and universities. UIC is the largest university in Chicago.
 


 







 Bike FriendlyChicago has more than 200 miles of on-street, protected, buffered and shared bike lanes. We also have a bike sharing program called DIVVY that allows students to rent bikes for short periods of time so they can get around the city. news.uic.edu/need-a-ride
 


 





 Strong Alumni NetworkDid you know that 1 in 10 Chicagoans with a college degree is a UIC graduate? Our alumni network is 200,000 strong!
 


 







 So Many ChoicesUIC has 16 academic colleges and offers 86 undergraduate majors and 60 undergraduate minors. Find out where you belong!
 


 





 Diverse & WelcomingU.S. News & World Report named UIC one of the most diverse campuses in the United States, and Campus Pride ranks UIC among the nation’s top LGBT-friendly campuses.
 


 







 Places that InspireStudy at the University Library’s IDEA Commons, a student-centered space designed for collaborative study, technology use and research. It's open 24 hours a day, Sundays–Thursdays.
 


 




 


Get to know yourself better here.​Request Information​ 










Apply Now
Research Programs
Book a Visit


















UnderGraduate




Graduate & Professional 



 










Office of Admissions
Main Office
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350Contact UIC Admissions
 
Visitors Center
1220 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 413-1726
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161 Contact Undergraduate Admissions 
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.Contact Graduate and Professional Admissions
 


 






 













Privacy Statement
Nondiscrimination Statement
Site Map
Accessibility
Site Home
UIC Home
Login
Webmaster
Copyright © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of IllinoisFacebook
Twitter
YouTube
Accessibility




 

T



CookieSettings






