 












                            Soni, Nikita  | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 















Nikita  Soni
Assistant Professor

Department of Computer Science









Contact 

Building & Room:
SEO 1218


Address:
851 S. Morgan St, MC 152, Chicago, IL, 60607


Email:
nnsoni@uic.edu


Related Sites:


Personal Website
Google Scholar












About

Nikita Soni, Ph.D. is an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois Chicago. She earned a Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) degree in Electronics and Communications (Jaypee University of Engineering and Technology, 2015), a Master of Science (MS) degree in Computer Science (University of Florida, 2016), and a Ph.D. in Human-Centered Computing (University of Florida, 2021).
Her research interests include Human-Computer Interaction, Interaction Design, Computer-Supported Collaborative Work, and Child-Computer Interaction. In her research, Nikita understands children’s and adults’ mental models and natural interaction behaviors, with novel and existing technologies, then leverages this understanding to create and test computing applications that enable learning and creativity. Her Ph.D. dissertation investigated how to design natural user interactions for multi-touch spherical displays to support both individual and group-based interactions, particularly in the context of learning from educational data visualizations in museums. Here is a sub-set of design guidelines from her dissertation, that can be used when designing future applications for multi-touch spherical displays or porting existing flatscreen applications to spherical touchscreens. Nikita's work on designing touchscreen applications for children has led to the formation of the TIDRC framework, containing actionable design guidelines for designers and developers of children's touchscreen applications. Her work has received recognition and honorable mention in the research community at one of the top HCI conferences in 2021, ACM Computer-Supported Collaborative Work (CSCW).



Selected Grants

Illinois Space Grant Consortium 2022 (UIUC sub-award, NASA primary sponsor), GeoDataOnSphere: Collaborative Exploration of GeoData on Multi-touch Spherical Displays for Future Teachers, PI



Selected Publications

Soni, N., Tierney, A., Jurczyk, K., Gleaves, S., Schreiber, E., Stofer, K.A., and Anthony, L. 2021. Collaboration around Multi-touch Spherical Displays: A Field Study at a Science Museum. In Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction, Vol. 5, CSCW2, Article 326 (October 2021), 32 pages. Impact Factor: 1.825 [Honorable Mention] [PDF]
Soni, N., Aloba, A., Morga, K.S., Wisniewski, P.J., and Anthony, L. 2019. A Framework of Touchscreen Interaction Design Recommendations for Children (TIDRC): Characterizing the Gap between Research Evidence and Design Practice. In Proceedings of the Conference on Interaction Design and Children (IDC’19), Idaho, USA, 419-431. [PDF]



Service to Community

Co-chair, Late Breaking Results, International Conference on Multimodal Interaction (ICMI 2022)
















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












