 















                            Campus-Wide New TA Orientation | Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence

Main Menu




        RESOURCES
      


Expand RESOURCES menu











                  Assessment & Grading
                




                  Clinical Education
                




                  Course Modalities
                




                  Data Analytics
                




                  Funding Opportunities
                




                  Library Resources
                




                  Organizations and Consortiums
                




                  Preparing to Teach
                




                  Teaching Guides
                




                  Teaching Toolkits
                




                  Teaching with Technology
                




                  Policies
                









        EDTECH
      


Expand EDTECH menu











                  Digital Course Materials
                




                  Equipment Lending
                




                  Grading and Proctoring
                




                  Learning Management System
                




                  Learning Spaces
                




                  Lecture Capture
                




                  Media Streaming
                




                  Multimedia Creation Software
                




                  Multimedia Services
                




                  Online File Storage
                




                  Polling and Surveys
                




                  Virtual Classrooms
                




                  Virtual Collaboration
                




                  Other EdTech Apps
                









        PROGRAMS
      


Expand PROGRAMS menu











                  Instructors
                




                  Teaching Assistants
                




                  Graduate Students & Postdocs
                









        EVENTS
      




        CONNECT
      


Expand CONNECT menu











                  CATE Newsletters
                




                  Instructional Design Appointment
                




                  Multimedia Appointment
                




                  TA Consultation Request
                




                  Learning Technology Support
                









        SPOTLIGHT
      


Expand SPOTLIGHT menu











                  Awards at UIC: Teaching Recognition
                




                  External Awards: Teaching Recognition
                




                  Innovations in Teaching at UIC
                




                  UIC Scholars & Mentors in Teaching
                




                  Education Grants Award Recipients
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Mission, Goals, and Values
                




                  Impact
                




                  Launch Committee
                




                  Campus Partners
                




                  Team Directory
                




                  Locations
                




                  Job Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Provost's Office


Office of Faculty Affairs


Office of Diversity


CIRTL


Newsletter Subscribe


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence


PROGRAMS


Teaching Assistants


Campus-Wide New TA Orientation






Campus-Wide New TA Orientation



 
This mandatory Campus-Wide New Teaching Assistant (TA) Orientation is hosted by the Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence (CATE) in partnership with the Graduate College. This orientation is designed to supplement departmental-based orientations and training for new graduate student teaching assistants.






            2022 UIC Campus-Wide TA Orientation
          Heading link



 
Copy link






            column 1
          


Learn about being a TA at UIC and the resources available to support you in your role





            column 2
          


Increase your knowledge of pedagogy and develop practical teaching skills you can use as a TA





            column 3
          


Meet with other new and experienced TAs at UIC









            Registration N Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            New TA Orientation Resources
                    

                Before you start your TA appointment, please review the Getting Started as a TA Guides and the New TA Orientation Videos, and explore other resources that align with your TA responsibilities and interests.
            












                            Upcoming TA Training
                    

                Registration for the in-person 2022 Campus-Wide New TA Orientation is now closed. If you are interested in learning more about upcoming TA Training opportunities please complete this form.
            










            Frequently Asked Questions
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Who should attend?
                    








            Who should attend?
          




            column 1
          

All graduate students who will be TAs at UIC for the first time during the upcoming Fall, Spring, or Summer semesters are required to attend.










                            When and where is TA Orientation held?
                    








            When and where is TA Orientation held?
          




            column 1
          

The 2022 Campus-Wide New TA Orientation is being held on campus on Wednesday, August 17 from 1:00 pm – 4:15 pm CT in Lincoln Hall, 707 S. Morgan St (UIC campus map).
 




            Column 2
          

Check-in for the orientation will begin at 12:15 pm in the lobby of Lincoln Hall, and the entrance is on the north side of the building. Asynchronous videos and resources will be distributed the week prior to the in-person orientation.










                            What if I don’t know my TA assignment?
                    








            What if I don’t know my TA assignment?
          




            column 1
          

Graduate students expecting to be first-time TAs in the fall, spring, or summer semester of the current academic year are encouraged to attend the TA Orientation.




            column 2
          

Your department is the best source of information for details about your TA assignment.










                            What if I have an access question or request?
                    








            What if I have an access question?
          




            column 1
          

This event will take place in-person in Lincoln Hall, 707 S. Morgan St (UIC campus map). Registration and some workshops will take place on the first floor. There is an elevator in Grant Hall with skybridge access to the second and third floors of Lincoln Hall via Douglas Hall.




            column 2
          

Accessible restrooms are available on the first and second floors of Lincoln Hall and Douglas Hall, and an accessible all gender restroom is available on the first floor of Douglas Hall next to the women’s restroom.
For more access info or access requests, please email teaching@uic.edu.










                            How can I get to the orientation (via mass transit, driving, or bike)?
                    








            How can I get to the orientation (via mass transit, driving, or bike)?
          




            Column 1
          

Learn more about options for getting to campus including information about campus parking from the UIC Visit & Directions page.










                            How can I access digital workshop materials during the orientation?
                    








            How can I access digital workshop materials during the orientation?
          




            UIC-Wifi
          

You are encouraged to bring a laptop or tablet with you to the orientation, as many workshops will have digital materials available or provide opportunities for you to engage in some hands-on practice.
Once you are on campus you can connect to UIC-Wifi. UIC-Wifi is available in most classroom spaces across campus as well as some outdoor locations.
Learn how to connect to UIC-Wifi using different types of devices through this Knowledge Base article.




            Google Workspace and Box
          

During the orientation, many materials will be shared via Google Workspace or Box, which are file storage and collaboration tools used at UIC. Prior to the orientation you are encouraged to:

Create a UIC Google Workspace account.
Create a UIC Box account (netID login required).

If you have questions or need help with accessing any of these services, please reach out to Technology Solutions.










                            What If I am unable to attend the TA Orientation?
                    








            What If I am unable to attend the TA Orientation?
          




            column 1
          

Before you begin your TA responsibilities, please visit the New TA Orientation Resources Webpage and:

Review the Getting Started as a TA Guides
Watch the 2022 New TA Orientation Videos

We also recommend filling out this form to be adding to a mailing list to be notified when additional workshops are scheduled later this semester.




            column 2
          

You might also be interested in reviewing session recordings from past orientations from any sessions that sound like they might be of interest to you or relevant to your TA duties.
It is also recommended that Graduate students who miss the TA Orientation discuss next steps with their respective departments.










                            Who should I contact if I have questions or need more information about TA Orientation?
                    








            Who should I contact if I have questions or need more information about TA Orientation?
          




            column 1
          

For more information, please contact us.










                            Is there a separate orientation for International TAs?
                    








            Is there a separate orientation for International TAs?
          




            column 1
          

No, there is not a separate required orientation for international TAs. However, there will be optional sessions offered by the International Teaching Assistant Program during the New TA Orientation.

















PROGRAMS


Back to main content









Instructors 


CATE Seminar Series 

Teaching Tidbits Workshops 

Action Research Scholars 

CATE Summer Institute 



Teaching Assistants 


Teaching Assistant Resources 

Campus-Wide New TA Orientation 



Graduate Students & Postdocs 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence (CATE)
teaching@uic.edu

 




Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












