 












                            Student Presenter Awards | Graduate College | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Graduate College

Main Menu




        Admissions
      


Expand Admissions menu











                  Degree Admissions
                




                  Application Deadlines
                









        Funding & Awards
      


Expand Funding & Awards menu











                  Graduate Funding Overview
                




                  Fellowships & Awards
                




                  Other Funding
                









        Programs
      


Expand Programs menu











                  Graduate College Courses
                




                  Graduate Program in Neuroscience
                




                  Certificate in the Foundations of College Instruction
                









        Diversity
      


Expand Diversity menu











                  Recruitment
                




                  Fellows Mentoring & Support
                




                  DFI Program
                




                  (PIF) Program
                




                  PBRC-PREP Program
                




                  SROP Undergraduate Program
                









        Academics
      


Expand Academics menu











                  Dates & Events
                




                  Registration Info
                




                  Thesis
                




                  Exams & Defense
                




                  Policies & Procedures
                




                  Teaching Assistants
                




                  Graduation Info
                




                  Student Forms
                




                  Student Resources
                









        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  Staff Directory
                




                  Faculty Listings
                




                  Newsletters
                




                  Contact Us
                








Eyebrow menu


Faculty & Staff Resources


Alumni


+Give


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Graduate College
              
Graduate College 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Graduate College


Funding & Awards


Graduate College Fellowships & Awards


Student Presenter Awards






Student Presenter Awards






            Student Presenter Awards
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The Graduate College offers up to $150.00 (depending on actual expenses) to eligible graduate students to help to defray costs associated with presenting original research or scholarly work at a meeting or conference. The meeting or conference must be a part of a nationally or internationally recognized scientific or scholarly society. Applicants must be presenting the original research or scholarly work themselves. The award may be used for transportation (outside the Chicago metropolitan area only), hotels, and/or registration expenses.
A graduate student is defined as a degree-seeking student who is currently enrolled in a Graduate College program. Students enrolled in professional and non-Graduate College programs (e.g., DMD, DPT, DrPH, JD, LLM, MBA, MEng, MD, MPH, MSW, and PharmD) are not eligible. For a full list of programs in the Graduate College, please see the Graduate College website.
The award is contingent upon funds availability and may only be received once per fiscal year (e.g., July 2021 – June 2022). The award is administered by the Associate Director of Human Resources and Finance.
Application Deadlines
Applications should be submitted as soon as possible after completion of the event.
Application Instructions
Applicants must submit a completed application and proof that they have been presenters at the meeting or conference in one of the following ways: a printout of the program listing the applicant’s presentation from the official conference website along with the url, a copy of the cover page from a printed program and of the page that lists the applicant’s name and the date and time of the applicant’s presentation, or an official letter or e-mail addressed to the applicant stating that he or she has been accepted as a presenter at the meeting or conference. Applicants must also submit an abstract of the work presented and proof of payment (e.g., paid receipt). Failure to submit the required materials will disqualify your application.
To apply, download and complete the application. The application must be signed by you and your advisor, director of graduate studies, or department head. INCOMPLETE, ALTERED, and/or UNSIGNED APPLICATIONS WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED. 
Using the file naming protocol, email your completed application, with all required materials, as a single PDF, to: Student.pj6drhuyyt4qyvzj@u.box.com
The Graduate College is not responsible for any losses or delays caused by electronic services or otherwise.
Award Amount
Students who meet the stipulated criteria for the award and submit the required documents will be considered for a payment of up to $150 (depending on actual expenses).
Payment Processing
The payment is applied to the student’s university account and is considered a resource when determining the student’s eligibility for financial aid. Therefore, the payment is reported to the Office of Student Financial Aid (OSFA) and may have an impact on the type and amount of financial aid the student receives. OSFA will make the necessary adjustment to the student’s financial aid award. This adjustment may create or increase a balance due on the student’s university account. The student is responsible for reviewing her/his Financial Aid Award letter and student account billing statement after the payment has been paid to understand the impact of the payment. Payments to Foreign National students are processed through University Payroll and may require additional paperwork.



      UIC funding
    







Student Presenter Award Application






            Other funding
          Heading link



 
Copy link






            Graduate Student Council Travel Awards
          

The UIC Graduate Student Council Travel Award is available to students actively participating in academic or professional meetings. To eligible applicants, the GSC gives awards of up to $275, which may be used for transportation, lodging, registration, and meal costs.





      For more information...
    






            College of Liberal Arts and Sciences
          

The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences has historically provided student travel awards to PhD students in a program within Liberal Arts and Sciences.




            UIC HPSC
          

The UIC Health Professions Student Council (HPSC) is a liaison organization between the individual health professions students, student groups, and the university at large. We fund the individual health professional student councils and provide additional funding to students for travel and interdisciplinary projects.





      For more information...
    






            President's Research in Diversity Travel Award
          

For University of Illinois graduate and professional students who will be presenting papers, posters, or creative work at conferences related to issues of diversity or identity, such as those involving race, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, and national origin. There are two competitions in year, during the fall and spring terms.





      For more information...
    






            Academic program and disciplinary college
          

Check your academic program and disciplinary college websites to determine if they may have travel awards.




            Other funding
          

In addition to the Graduate College’s funding mechanisms, there are online funding tools available.





      For more information...
    











            DEADLINES
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Deadline for the SPA: Last day of the month in which travel is completed.









            Questions?
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Envelope icon







Questions?












Financial Aid











Funding & Awards


Back to main content









Graduate Funding Overview 


April 15th Resolution 

Assistantships 



Fellowships & Awards 


Fellowships Office Information 

Graduate College Tuition & Fee Waivers 

(PIF) Program 


UIC PIF Fellows 



The Image Of Research 

Emergency Grants 



Other Funding 


Online Funding Resources 

National & International Opportunities 















 





















Campus Resources


Academic Calendar


UIC Today


Event Calendar


UIC Maps


Visit & Directions


Clery Compliance


Nondiscrimination Policy


Title IX: Sexual Misconduct


Student Information Disclosures




Staff Resources


my UIC


UIC Outlook Online


GoogleApps@UIC


Site Login




Student Resources


Wellness Center


Writing Center


UIC Pop-Up Pantry








Social Media Accounts





Facebook













Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















Contact
 Graduate College
601 S. Morgan St., 604 UH, 192, Chicago, Illinois 60607-7106
Phone: (312) 413-2550
Fax: (312) 413-0185
gradcoll@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














