 












                            COVID-19 Information | CampusCare | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































CampusCare

Main Menu




        About
      




        Benefits
      


Expand Benefits menu











                  Primary Care
                




                  Specialty Care
                




                  In-Network Hospitals
                




                  Pharmacy
                




                  Vision
                




                  Dental
                




                  Hearing
                




                  Life Insurance & Other Benefits
                




                  Certificate of Coverage
                




                  COVID-19 Information
                




                  Claims
                









        Important Information
      


Expand Important Information menu











                  FAQs
                




                  COVID-19 Information
                




                  ACA & 1095-B
                




                  Claims
                




                  Dates & Fees
                




                  Deadline Date Appeal Process
                




                  Dependent Information
                




                  Eligibility
                




                  Health Service Fee
                




                  Letter of Credible Coverage
                




                  Popular Insurance Definitions
                




                  Print ID Cards
                




                  Provider Portal
                




                  Quick Reference Guide
                




                  Summer Coverage
                




                  Waiver & Reinstatement Forms
                









        Policies
      


Expand Policies menu











                  Member Rights & Responsibilities
                




                  Summer Coverage
                




                  Confidentiality
                




                  Certificate of Coverage
                




                  CampusCare as Secondary Insurance
                




                  COVID-19 Information
                









        Contact Us
      



Eyebrow menu


COVID-19 Information


UIC menu


UI Health


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                CampusCare
              


                                UI Health is UIC’s academic health enterprise
              





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












COVID-19 Information






            COVID-19 Information
          Heading link



 
Copy link



CampusCare covers treatment for coronavirus/COVID-19 in the same way it does all other illnesses. If you have CampusCare you can review the plan’s summary of benefits on our website at www.campuscare.uic.edu.

Students who are feeling ill or suspect that they could have coronavirus/COVID-19 should first call their CampusCare primary care provider:
Chicago: University of Illinois Physician Group, Department of Family Medicine at (312) 996-2901
Peoria: UnityPoint Clinic Family Medicine at (309) 672-4977
Rockford: University Medical Services at (815) 395-5870 or University Family Health Center at (815) 972-1000
For additional questions, you may contact CampusCare directly at cchealth@uic.edu.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic CampusCare has implemented the following in effect starting March 15, 2020 through May 14, 2023, CampusCare will re-evaluate for continuation.
 
Telehealth/E-Visits:
CampusCare will cover telehealth & e-visits with NO COPAYMENT. Students must contact their in-network primary care provider or in-network specialty physicians to set up telehealth & e-visits for their health care needs. All members must establish a provider relationship prior to any referrals or treatment. This can currently be done remotely via a telehealth visit. Call your in-network PCP for an appointment.
Students who are out of state: you will need to contact your primary care provider at your UI campus Primary Care Center to request a referral for care that is in the area where you are living currently.
Students who are in Illinois or Indiana: you can still utilize telehealth appointments with your CampusCare Primary Care provider. However, you must update your home address in your UI Health MyChart to your address in Illinois or Indiana in order for a physician to provide treatment.
Out of Network Care: 
Please contact your primary care physician at Family Medicine for direction on all non-emergent care. Out-of-network care authorized by your in-network primary care physician will be assessed at an in-network cost share and copayment. All members must establish a provider relationship prior to any referrals or treatment. This can currently be done remotely via a telehealth visit. Call your PCP for an appointment.

COVID-19 Vaccine:
COVID-19 Vaccination and Administration is covered at 100% with no copay.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination at the University of Illinois you will have no payment.
If you receive your COVID-19 vaccination at an Out-of-Network provider you will need to pay for your services upfront and submit the following information to our claims department for 100% reimbursement. Please contact your PCP at Family Medicine prior to seeking out-of-network services.
* The original receipt, itemized to show the vaccine charge
* A cover letter requesting reimbursement which includes your Name and UIN
*Pharmacy identification sheet (If received at a pharmacy)
*Invoice or claim that identifies the services (If received at an Urgent Care or Clinic)



Please mail all information to:
CampusCare
PO Box 8030
Westchester, IL 60154
Please note that Out-of-Network claims may take up to 30 days to mail out your check
 


Flu Vaccine:
Flu Vaccination and Administration is covered at 100% with no copay.
If you receive your flu vaccination at the University of Illinois you will have no payment.
University Village Pharmacy accepts walk-in for the flu shot.
Information regarding obtaining your flu shot at UI Health can be found here.
If you receive your flu vaccination at an Out-of-Network provider you will need to pay for your services upfront and submit the following information to our claims department for 100% reimbursement. Please contact your PCP at Family Medicine prior to seeking out-of-network services.
* The original receipt, itemized to show the vaccine charge
* A cover letter requesting reimbursement which includes your Name and UIN
*Pharmacy identification sheet (If received at a pharmacy)
*Invoice or claim that identifies the services (If received at an Urgent Care or Clinic)



Please mail all information to:
CampusCare
PO Box 8030
Westchester, IL 60154
Please note that Out-of-Network claims may take up to 30 days to mail out your check
COVID-19 Testing:
COVID-19 Viral Lab Testing is covered at 100% with no copay for medical necessity only.
COVID-19 Viral Lab Testing is NOT covered for travel purposes.
Pharmacy Information:

Pharmacies are able to process new and refill prescriptions from in-person and telehealth appointments provided by UI Health providers.


University Village Pharmacy is open M-F 9:00AM – 5:00PM.  Call the pharmacy 312-355-2345 for specific prescription needs and to schedule your pick-up.



Mail Order: Please call University Village Pharmacy at 312-355-2345 to schedule a mail order prescription delivery with no delivery fee. *Some exclusions apply.



EEI/Taylor Street Pharmacy M-F 9:00AM-5:00PM.


Rockford & Peoria students can contact their in-network pharmacy for curb side prescription pick up.


Students can still pick up their prescription at out of network pharmacies and submit a claim for reimbursement. Please see our claims page for further information on how to request reimbursement.

















 
University of Illinois Chicago








































UI Health































            UIC's seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise.
        



Contact
 Phone: 312-996-4915
cchealth@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












