 












                            Undergraduate | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 









Undergraduate





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon
















            title
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Computer science is one of the fastest-growing undergraduate disciplines at UIC—the number of computer science majors has increased fivefold in the last 10 years. It’s not hard to see why. Computer science is helping self-driving cars to drive safely, allowing us to create beautiful visualizations of complex information, finding new ways to keep our personal information safe, enabling us to talk to our appliances and phones, and so much more.
This is an extremely rich and diverse discipline. If you are interested in studying computer science, the UIC curriculum will ensure that you have the depth and preparation that will allow you to pursue whatever career goal you may have, from data mining to video-game design to artificial intelligence.
Why is computer science housed in UIC’s College of Engineering? It’s a natural fit. Engineering is about using scientific and mathematical knowledge to enable the design and creation of complex products, and computers are one of our most powerful tools for design and creation.
A degree in computer science from UIC will allow you to understand theory and practice, so that you have the power to analyze, imagine, design, and create the programs that will shape what we experience in the future.





            luis
          Heading link



 
Copy link




I chose the College of Engineering because computer science at UIC is at the top of its field. One thing UIC does better than anyone else is keeping an up-to-date curriculum—it pushes students’ limits, and then beyond that. I advise students to find computer science friends you can work with: collaboration is the key to passing.



  Luis Samayoa
  
               | 
              
  BS in Computer Science
  







            What can we teach you about computer science?
          Heading link



 
Copy link






You can think about computer science as a widely varied field that spans a large spectrum. At one end of that spectrum, computer science can be defined as the study of what can be done with computation and what resources are required for that. At the other end of the spectrum, computer science can be defined as how to apply knowledge, hardware, and software to solve human and social needs.
Can you think of problems in our society or in your community that could benefit from a creative solution? What bothers you in the world? With a computer science education, you might be able to come up with a creative technological solution.
The UIC computer science department will train you to understand computer science at both ends of the spectrum that stretches across this fascinating field. At UIC, you will build a broad background that will serve you well into your career. You will become familiar with critical theories that underlie computer science, and you will develop applied skills in the design, implementation and validation of computer systems.
In our experience, industry jobs and graduate programs value, above all, people who can solve real problems come prepared to use the tools of their trade.




Visit our
undergraduate admissions page








Undergraduate


Back to main content









Admissions 

Accreditation 

Advising 

Courses 

Majors 


Computer Science Major 

Computer Science + Design Major 

Data Science Major 



Minor 

Internships and Jobs 

Student Groups 

Student Resources 

Women in CS 













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












