 












                            Trivedi, Amit Ranjan | Electrical and Computer Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago
                    




















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Electrical and Computer Engineering

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Computer Engineering
                




                  Electrical Engineering
                




                  Engineering Physics
                




                  Courses
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Minors
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Dissertations
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Featured Research
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                




                  Research Assistantship Opportunities
                




                  Sponsors
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Professional Organizations
                




                  Resources
                




                  Staff
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      



Eyebrow menu


Give


Alumni


College of Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Electrical and Computer Engineering
              
College of Engineering 















Amit Ranjan Trivedi
Assistant Professor

Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering









Contact 

Building & Room:
3015 ERF


Address:
842 West Taylor Street, MC 154, Chicago, IL 60607


Office Phone:
(312) 996-5256


Email:
amitrt@uic.edu


Related Sites:


AEON Lab












About



Amit completed his undergraduate and a graduate degree from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur in 2008. Amit was awarded an academic excellence award from the institute for his standing in the top 5% of his peers. Following this, he was a research staff member at IBM Semiconductor Research and Development Center, where he was involved in compact modeling and characterization of advanced nanometer node transistors/processes. Since, Fall 2010, Amit pursued Ph.D. at the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech). His research was in low power energy-efficient neuromorphic computing with emerging technologies, and particularly, with Tunneling field-effect-transistors. Amit was a research intern at IBM T J Watson research center in the summer of 2012, and Intel’s Circuit research lab in the summer of 2014. Amit joined UIC as a tenured track assistant professor in October 2015. Amit was awarded the IEEE Electron Device Society fellowship in 2014, where he was one of the three recipients worldwide, and only one in the Americas. Amit was also awarded Sigma Xi Best Ph.D. thesis award at Georgia Tech. At UIC, Amit has been awarded the College of Engineering Seed Funding award and Phase-I Chancellor’s Proof-of-Concept award. In 2021, Amit has also been awarded the NSF CAREER award for his project on Robust and Ultra-low-power Spatial Intelligence.

Research Interest: Artificial Intelligence (AI) at the edge; Hardware Security; Nano-robotics









Selected Publications


Fengchao Zhang, Shubhra Deb Paul, Patanjali Slpsk, Amit Ranjan Trivedi, and Swarup Bhunia. “On Database-Free Authentication of Microelectronic Components.” IEEE Transactions on Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems, 2020.
Bogil Kim, Sungjae Lee, Amit Ranjan Trivedi, and William J. Song. “Energy-Efficient Acceleration of Deep Neural Networks on Realtime-Constrained Embedded Edge Devices.” IEEE Access, 2020.
Shamma Nasrin Justine Drobitch, Priyesh Shukla, Theja Tulabandhula, Supriyo Bandyopadhyay, and Amit Ranjan Trivedi, “Bayesian reasoning machine on a magneto-tunneling junction network,” Nanotechnology, 2020.
Madhu Padmanabha Sumangala, Ahish Shylendra, David J. Frank, Takashi Ando, and Amit Ranjan Trivedi. “A Simulation Study on Minimizing Threshold Voltage Variability by Optimizing Oxygen Vacancy Concentration Under Metal Gate Granularity.” IEEE Electron Device Letters, 2020.
Ahish Shylendra, Priyesh Shukla, Saibal Mukhopadhyay, Swarup Bhunia, and Amit Ranjan Trivedi. “Low Power Unsupervised Anomaly Detection by Nonparametric Modeling of Sensor Statistics.” IEEE Transactions on Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems, 2020.
Megan E. Beck, Ahish Shylendra, Vinod K. Sangwan, Silu Guo, William A. Gaviria Rojas, Hocheon Yoo, Hadallia Bergeron, Katherine Su, Amit R. Trivedi, and Mark C. Hersam. “Spiking neurons from tunable Gaussian heterojunction transistors.” Nature communications, 2020.
Nick Iliev and Amit Ranjan Trivedi. “Low-Power Sensor Localization in Three-Dimensional Using a Recurrent Neural Network.” IEEE Sensors Letters, 2019.
Nick Iliev, Alberto Gianelli, and Amit Ranjan Trivedi. “Low Power Speaker Identification by Integrated Clustering and Gaussian Mixture Model Scoring.” IEEE Embedded Systems Letters, 2019.
Ahish Shylendra, Swarup Bhunia, and Amit Ranjan Trivedi. “An Intrinsic and Database-Free Authentication by Exploiting Process Variation in Back-End Capacitors.” IEEE Transactions on Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems, 2019.
Shamma Nasrin, Justine L. Drobitch, Supriyo Bandyopadhyay, and Amit Ranjan Trivedi. “Low power restricted Boltzmann machine using mixed-mode magneto-tunneling junctions.” IEEE Electron Device Letters, 2019.
Tapas Dutta, Girish Pahwa, Amit Ranjan Trivedi, Saurabh Sinha, Amit Agarwal, and Yogesh Singh Chauhan. “Performance evaluation of 7-nm node negative capacitance FinFET-based SRAM.” IEEE Electron Device Letters, 2017.
Susmita Dey Manasi, Md Mamun Al-Rashid, Jayasimha Atulasimha, Supriyo Bandyopadhyay, and Amit Ranjan Trivedi, “Skewed Straintronic Magnetotunneling-Junction-Based Ternary Content-Addressable Memory-Part II,” IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, 2017.
Susmita Dey Manasi, Md Mamun Al-Rashid, Jayasimha Atulasimha, Supriyo Bandyopadhyay, and Amit Ranjan Trivedi, “Skewed Straintronic Magnetotunneling-Junction-Based Ternary Content-Addressable Memory-Part I,” IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, 2017.
Tapas Dutta, Girish Pahwa, Amit Ranjan Trivedi, Saurabh Sinha, Amit Agarwal, and Yogesh Singh Chauhan, “Performance Evaluation of 7 nm Node Negative Capacitance FinFET based SRAM,” IEEE Electron Device Letters, 2017.
Tonmoy Dhar and Amit Ranjan Trivedi, “Area and energy-efficient physically unclonable function based on k-winners-take-all,” Electronics Letters, 2016.




Notable Honors

2021, CAREER Award, NSF
2015, Sigma-Xi Best PhD Dissertation, Georgia Tech
2014, IEEE Electron Device Society (EDS) Fellowship, IEEE Electron Device Society
2005, Academic Excellence Award, Indian Institute of Technology



Education

PhD, Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech), Atlanta 2010-2015
B.Tech. + M.Tech., Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IITK) 2003-2008
















 

























Quicklinks


Contact Us


Open Positions


Faculty Resources


Graduate Resources


Undergraduate Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















Contact
 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
851 S. Morgan St., 1020 SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3423
Fax: (312) 996-6465
ecestudentaffairs@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












