 












                            Graduate | Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Civil Engineering Major
                




                  Environmental Engineering Major
                




                  Courses
                




                  Minors
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Programs
                




                  PhD Programs
                




                  PhD Dissertations
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  High-Bay Structures Laboratory
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Areas
                




                  Student Research Opportunities
                




                  Seminars
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Core Faculty
                




                  Courtesy and Dual Appointments
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Faculty Awards
                




                  Professional Advisory Council
                




                  Staff
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      




        Events
      



Eyebrow menu


Give


Alumni


College of Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering
              
College of Engineering 









Graduate





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












THE GRE EXAM HAS BEEN WAIVED FOR FALL 2023 APPLICANTS
UIC CME offers master's programs and doctoral programs that are positioned at the top of their fields, making the most of the extraordinary resources of Chicago to educate the next generation of leaders and scholars in civil and materials engineering.






            intro
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Find your mission. As a public research university located in the heart of Chicago, UIC prioritizes scholarship, teaching, and service that advance society. This is your opportunity to think creatively and confidently about how your graduate work can make a difference. Our faculty members will guide you as you identify an area of engineering where you can contribute positively to the world and develop your knowledge and skills in that area. Whether you are interested in the way we plan our communities, how we construct buildings and infrastructure, our impact on the environment and the avenues that lie before us to improve sustainability, how we move people and things, or how we engineer the materials that make up every facet of our world, UIC will prepare you to make a defining contribution.
Investigate and explore with top-tier facilities and programs. UIC is home to a High-Bay Structures Laboratory that can be used to test bridge components, sections of roadway, and other large items. UIC civil, materials, and environmental engineering also supports GAANN Fellows, U.S. Department of Education-sponsored doctoral students who want to do important research in the area of structural resilience. If you are unsure of where to start, visit our Labs page to learn about the research spaces and collectives that define cutting-edge inquiry in our department.






            next up
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Make Chicago your own. Studying in Chicago is a remarkable experience. Here, you have the resources of a major U.S. metropolitan area at your fingertips: the architectural, engineering, and construction firms that create and maintain one of the most iconic skylines in the world; the offices of dozens of key federal, regional, and state government agencies; and the Discovery Partners Institute research consortium, which positions the University of Illinois system at the center of a research network that also includes the Northwestern University, the University of Chicago, and universities in India and Israel. Chicago, as America’s third-largest city, also offers you life experiences that you can’t get in most college towns: 77 varied neighborhoods, world-renowned museums, eclectic music and theater, restaurants that attract food enthusiasts from all over the world, and six major-league sports teams.
We invite you to get to know UIC. This website is your gateway to learning about our graduate programs, but we also welcome individual outreach. If you see a specific professor you are interested in studying with or a specific graduate course you are interested in taking, please do get in touch. We look forward to receiving your application.




Learn about
graduate admissions








Graduate


Back to main content









Admitted Students 

Admissions 


Apply Now 

Financial Aid and Funding 

Graduate Admissions FAQ 



Courses 

MS Programs 


MS in Civil Engineering 

MS in Materials Engineering 

MS in Construction Engineering and Management 



PhD Programs 


GAANN Fellowships 

Qualifying Examination 

Preliminary Examination 

Dissertation Process 



PhD Dissertations 

Post-Graduation Outcomes 

Student Resources 













 

























Quicklinks


Graduate Resources


Undergraduate Resources


Room Reservation Form


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















Contact
 Department of Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering
2095 Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3428
Fax: (312) 996-2426
cme@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












