 












                            Undergraduate Studies | Dept of Math, Stat, & Comp Sci | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Dept of Math, Stat, & Comp Sci

Main Menu




        People
      


Expand People menu











                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Teaching Assistants
                




                  Graduate Students
                




                  Visiting Scholars
                




                  Staff & Administrators
                




                  Faculty Awards
                




                  PhD & DA Alumni
                




                  Employment
                









        Seminars
      




        News
      




        Grad
      


Expand Grad menu











                  PhD and MS Programs
                




                  Prospective Students
                




                  Admissions and Financial Aid
                




                  New Admits
                




                  Current Students
                




                  Forms
                




                  Graduate Studies Calendar
                




                  Contact Graduate Studies
                









        Undergrad
      


Expand Undergrad menu











                  Majors
                




                  Minors
                




                  Emerging Scholars Program
                




                  Math Learning Center
                




                  MSCS Undergraduate Research Laboratory (MURL)
                




                  Undergraduate Math Symposium
                




                  Math Club
                




                  Resources for New Students
                




                  Resources for Current Students
                




                  Contact Undergraduate Studies
                









        Programs
      


Expand Programs menu











                  Mathematics
                




                  Mathematical Computer Science
                




                  Mathematics Education
                




                  Statistics
                









        Organizations
      


Expand Organizations menu











                  Special Programs
                




                  Student Organizations
                




                  Support Organizations
                








Eyebrow menu


learning center


courses


intranet


las.uic.edu


+Give


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Dept of Math, Stat, & Comp Sci
              
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 









Undergraduate Studies





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












The Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science (MSCS) offers
undergraduate degrees in

Mathematics
Mathematics and Computer Science
Mathematics Teaching
Statistics

Each of these programs has a mathematical core, is multidisciplinary in scope, and provides our students with a wide variety of career opportunities upon graduation. Our graduates continue with graduate work in mathematics, statistics, computer science; do graduate work in fields such as mathematics education (both research and teaching), economics, and public health; become secondary math teachers; go on to medical school, business school, and law school; and pursue careers in business, finance, actuarial science, informatics, public health, and government. Other MSCS graduates take with them their love of mathematics, their strong analytical and creative skills, and their participatory experiences in an undergraduate major that's rich with ideas into myriad new careers and pursuits, such as recording engineer, start-up entrepreneur, and educational software developer.






            Awards and Scholarships for MSCS Majors
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science offers a number of scholarships for undergraduate and graduate students. Applications are due by 4pm, March 12.
For more information about the MSCS awards, click on the links below.

Herbert Alexander Award
Louise Hay Award
Kurtin Scholarship
Victor Twersky Memorial Scholarship
Nicholas A. Yassan Award
Kathy Hill Cawthon Award
Joseph Landin Memorial Scholarship
Damber Singh Tomer and Meena Singh Tomer Endowed International Scholarship Fund
Philip Wagreich Memorial Scholarship
Yeuk-Lam Yau-Leung Memorial Scholarship Fund

The winners are announced at the MSCS Awards Tea in late April.






            LAS Awards and Scholarships
          Heading link



 
Copy link



There are around 20 LAS Scholarships (ranging from 400 to 10,000 US dollars) available through the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. MSCS majors and minors in good academic standing have been very competitive for these LAS awards; you are encouraged to apply.






            OVCSA Awards and Scholarships
          Heading link



 
Copy link



There around 10 scholarships available through the Office of the Vice Chancellor. For more information about these scholarships, go to OVCSA Scholarships.






            College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Research Initiative
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The LAS Undergraduate Research Initiative (LASURI) is a well-funded College of Liberal Arts and Sciences program that pairs Undergraduate Research Assistants with Faculty Mentors and gives these researchers or research teams funding to conduct semester- or year-long research projects.
If selected, Undergraduate Research Assistants receive a \$2500 award (\$1250 per semester), and Faculty Mentors receive a \$1500 grant for project costs.
If you are already working with an MSCS professor on an ongoing research project, then you are strongly encouraged to apply for a LASURI award. If you are an MSCS undergraduate taking a 300- or 400-level course, especially a 400-level elective (like MATH 494, MCS 421, MCS 481, or an independent study), then you are especially encouraged to approach one of your professors about designing an undergraduate research project and applying for a LASURI research award.
For more information about awards and scholarships, contact your MSCS advisor or the Director of Undergraduate Studies.






            Summer and Academic Year Undergraduate Research Opportunities
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The American Mathematical Society maintains a list of current Summer Research Experiences for Undergraduates in mathematics.
UIC provides its own Undergraduate Research Experiences. This website includes a partial list of MSCS faculty interested in taking on undergraduate students.
UREs are arranged with a faculty member and generally take place during the academic year. (See also the entry on LASURI above.)
For more information about undergraduate research experiences (REUs or UREs), contact your MSCS advisor or the Director of Undergraduate Studies.






            MSCS Advising
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Advising is one of the most important services provided by the Department. Departmental advisors can offer guidance about the major and courses going beyond the descriptive information available in the undergraduate catalog. Departmental advisors in MSCS offer both drop-in advising (i.e., appointments for quick questions of 15 minutes or less) and full advising appointment (i.e., appointments for course planning, career development, and departmental inquires of 30 minutes). Students can find drop-in advising information on the LAS Advising homepage or on iAdvise (my.uic.edu).






            ALEKS Placement for Math Courses
          Heading link



 
Copy link



All incoming first-year students must complete an online math assessment using ALEKS prior to taking other required UIC placement tests on campus and attending Orientation and Registration. Read more in the revised UIC Math Placement Procedures, and the ALEKS flyer.






            Tips on Applying to Graduate School
          Heading link



 
Copy link



If you are a junior or a senior considering continuing your education to obtain a Masters or Doctorate Degree, or if you are a new MSCS major curious about careers in Mathematics, Statistics and related fields, then we have a new must-read resource for you. Check out MSCS Careers page, along with our new Preparing for Graduate School and Careers in Mathematics brochures.








Undergrad


Back to main content









Majors 

Minors 

Emerging Scholars Program 

Math Learning Center 

MSCS Undergraduate Research Laboratory (MURL) 

Undergraduate Math Symposium 

Math Club 

Resources for New Students 


Course Placement 

ALEKS FAQ 

Chicago City College Agreement 

AP Credit 



Resources for Current Students 


Advising 

Request Department Approval to Register for a Course 

Scholarships 


MSCS Scholarships 



Career Information 

Job Search 



Contact Undergraduate Studies 













 



























MSCS Quick Links


JSTOR (via proxy)


Front for the arXiv


Numdam


MathSciNet (via proxy)


Naxos Music Library (via proxy)








Social Media Accounts








Contact
 Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science
851 S. Morgan Street ,322 Science and Engineering Offices (M/C 249) Chicago, IL 60607-7045
Phone: (312) 996-3041
Fax: (312) 996-1491
Want to email someone?  Click here to find out who to contact.

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














