


UMS @ UIC








Undergraduate Mathematics SymposiumSaturday, November 12, 2022University of Illinois at Chicago
Organized by David Dumas, Julius Ross, and Kevin Tucker



About the symposium
      
The Undergraduate Mathematics Symposium at UIC is an annual one-day
meeting focusing on undergraduate mathematical research and
education. The meeting features plenary lectures by mathematical
researchers and a poster session where students present results from undergraduate mathematical research projects.






Download the symposium poster

After running as an online conference in 2020 and 2021, we are pleased to announce that the 2022 UMS will be held in person on the UIC campus.  It will also be possible to attend the plenary lectures remotely, using a zoom link that will be provided to registered participants; however, it will not be possible to participate in the poster session remotely.
      


Plenary speakers

Marissa Kawehi Loving (U Wisconsin)

On automorphisms of the k-curve graph and building mathematical collaborations

Abstract:
				One of my favorite parts of being a mathematician is doing math with others, but the process of mathematical collaboration is often shrouded in mystery. How are new collaborations formed? How are they sustained? How do you make sure your collaborations are healthy and nourishing? In this talk, I'll share some of the ways my research collaborations have come to be, starting with a project that kicked off during the 2018 Summer@ICERM undergraduate research program.
		  	

Ronnie Nagloo (UIC)

Fun with transcendental numbers and functions

Abstract:
				A real or complex number is said to be algebraic if it is a solution of an equation F(x)=0, where F is a polynomial in one variable with rational coefficient. For example, &Sqrt;2 is algebraic since it is a solution of x2-2=0. On the other hand, a real or complex number is said to transcendental, if it is not algebraic. The most famous examples of such are e and π. Even though nearly all real and complex numbers are transcendental, very few numbers have been proven to be transcendental. This talk will be an excursion in the field of transcendental numbers as well as their counterparts in the world of functions.
			




Poster session

		Undergraduates who have completed an REU, summer program, or other supervised mathematical research experience can apply to present a poster at UMS.
	
Applications for posters at the 2022 UMS have closed.  We are reviewing the applications received and will notify applicants shortly.


Attending the symposium

			Everyone is welcome to attend, but please register so we know to expect you.
		

Register to attend

Frequently asked questions:

Funding: We do not have travel funding for non-presenter participants.
Remote participation:  Registered participants will receive a zoom link that will allow remote viewing of the plenary lectures (but not the poster session).  But please let us know by email if you know in advance you will participate remotely, since that will help in planning in our planning of seating, room layout, and food.



Schedule and locations
The symposium will be held on UIC's east campus.  Sign-in, plenary lectures, and lunch will be in the Science and Engineering Offices (SEO) building.  The poster sessions will be in the Math and Science Learning Center (MSLC) which is located on the third floor of the Science and Engineering South (SES) building.

 UIC Campus map
 SEO building: 851 S. Morgan St., Chicago, IL 60607
 SES building: 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607

The schedule of events is shown below:


Saturday, November 12


TimeEventLocation

9:00 - 9:30am
Sign-in and coffee
SEO 300


9:30am
Ronnie Nagloo - Fun with transcendental numbers and functions
SEO 636


10:45am
Morning poster session
MSLC room in SES


12:00pm
Lunch
SEO 300


1:30pm
Marissa Kawehi Loving - On automorphisms of the k-curve graph and building mathematical collaborations
SEO 636


2:45pm
Afternoon poster session
MSLC room in SES


4:00pm
Symposium ends




Previous symposia

2021



2020



2019



2018



2017



2016



2015



2014



2013



2012



2011



2010





Diversity statement
The UMS values diversity and inclusion. Regardless of age, disability, ethnicity, race, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, geographic background, religion, political ideology, language, or culture, we expect all members of this conference to contribute to a respectful, welcoming, and inclusive environment for every other participant.  Be mindful of different cultural and linguistic backgrounds, as well as different political ideologies and religious beliefs.
Any instance of a participant not adhering to this standard should be reported to one of the organizers.   Those who do not adhere will be removed from the symposium without the possibility of appeal.


Acknowledgment
UMS is supported in part by the following grants from the National Science Foundation: NSF RTG 2037569, DMS 1348092 CAREER.


Contact
David Dumas (ddumas@uic.edu)



