 















                            About UIC Business | Business | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Business

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Undergraduate Admissions
                




                  Undergraduate Degrees
                




                  First-Year Experience
                




                  UIC Business Scholars
                




                  Pre-College Programs
                




                  Student Life at UIC Business
                




                  Business Career Center
                




                  Professional Development
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Graduate Admissions
                




                  Graduate Degrees
                




                  Doctoral Programs
                




                  Doctoral Degrees
                




                  UIC Doctoral Students
                




                  Guaranteed and Preferred Admissions
                




                  Business Career Center
                









        Departments
      


Expand Departments menu











                  Department of Accounting
                




                  Department of Finance
                




                  Department of Information and Decision Sciences
                




                  Department of Marketing
                




                  Department of Managerial Studies
                




                  Stuart Handler Department of Real Estate
                









        Alumni
      


Expand Alumni menu











                  Give to UIC Business
                




                  Why I Give
                




                  Donor Recognition Society
                




                  Student Scholarship Support
                




                  Ways to Get Involved
                




                  Alumni Leadership Academy
                




                  Contact the Office of Advancement
                









        Recruiters
      




        Faculty/Research
      


Expand Faculty/Research menu











                  Faculty
                




                  Research
                




                  Center for Applied Analytics
                




                  International Center for Futures and Derivatives (ICFD)
                




                  Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)
                




                  UIC Entrepreneurial Support Program
                




                  For the Media
                




                  Faculty Recruitment
                








Eyebrow menu


Give Now


Visit Our Blog


Current UIC Business Students


About Us


Shop


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Business
              











About UIC Business






            Over 50 Years of Transforming Potential into Success
          Heading link



 
Copy link






In 1965, UIC left Navy Pier and the shores of Lake Michigan to build a sprawling urban campus in the Loop’s backyard. As the concrete structures of its Brutalist design began to rise at the border of the city’s financial district, so too did the university’s new College of Business Administration.
What began as a college with three programs—accounting, economics and general business—has grown into a top-ranked, research-based business school with an international reputation.
Today, the college is home to six academic departments—accounting, finance, information and decision sciences, managerial studies, marketing and real estate. Our nearly 150 faculty members teach more than 3,700 undergraduate students in nine degree programs in accounting, business administration, entrepreneurship, finance, human resource management, information and decision sciences, management, marketing and real estate.
In 2003, thanks to the generosity of the Liautaud family of Chicago, our graduate offerings were named and endowed as the UIC Liautaud Graduate School of Business. Today it serves over 1,000 graduate students in seven master’s programs—the MBA, Master of Accounting, Master of Business Analytics, Master of Finance, Master of Management Information Systems, Master of Marketing and Master of Supply Chain and Operations Management.
We also contribute to the creation of new knowledge through our two doctoral programs—the PhD in Business Administration with its four areas of focus – accounting, human resource management, information and decision sciences, and marketing and the PhD in Management Information Systems.
As the city and the world of business have changed, the UIC College of Business Administration has kept pace. In 2013, we introduced the Business Scholars Program, an in-house honors college for high-achieving undergraduate students. Our commitment to student success is steadfast. All students participate in professional development coursework and in 2021, we launched a unique cohort program where students take core business classes together during their first two years of college. We relaunched our online undergraduate business degree program several years ago and in 2021, it was rated as the 7th best online business program in the country.
Each year, we grow and change in order to be a destination of choice for aspiring business leaders from around the corner or across the globe. Our diverse student body and international Corporate MBA Program reflect the global business community and provide endless multicultural opportunities for our students and faculty.
Though they come from far and wide, our students and faculty reflect Chicago—hardworking, grounded and resourceful. With each new graduate who joins our rank of 40,000+ alumni, our influence and positive global contributions grow.
Both the college and the campus have seen tremendous changes in their 50 years. UIC Business will continue to evolve to meet the changing demands of business and to serve the needs of all our students: past, present and future.
I am proud to be a part of such a storied heritage and I look forward to continuing to help UIC Business produce tomorrow’s business leaders.
Sandy Wayne, Interim Dean of UIC Business






            History
          Heading link



 
Copy link






UIC’s College of Business Administration had its start at the Circle Campus and conferred its first degrees in June 1966. The CBA graduate 37 students in its three programs: Accounting, Economics and General Business.
In 1969, the Board of Trustees gave approval for the CBA to begin offering a Masters of Business Administration. That same year, the Business Advisory Council was formed, an organization that remains to this day and provides a nexus for the college and the business community.
In 1970, the college formed departments to handle the responsibility of each curriculum. The departments were: Accounting, Economics, Finance, Management, Marketing, and Quantitative Methods.
In 1971, the college received its initial accreditation from the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business.
In 1980, the Bachelor of Business Administration was established. In 1981, the Master of Science in Accounting was added and in 1983, the Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration was established.
Entrepreneurship made its debut at the college in 1986 with the establishment of the entrepreneurship concentration in the MBA program.
In 2003,  thanks to the generosity of the Liautaud family of Chicago, the UIC Liautaud Graduate School of Business was successfully endowed. Jim Liautaud, a lifetime member of the University of Illinois Alumni Association, along with his wife Gina, and their son Jimmy John, provided a generous gift to the college. The Liautaud family is a longtime supporter of the College of Business Administration and the University of Illinois at Chicago. Jim and son Jimmy John both have been inducted to the UIC Entrepreneurship Hall of Fame.






            Douglass Hall
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Douglass Hall is home to the UIC Business Career Center and is also our main classroom facility for business courses.
The renovation of UIC Douglass Hall provides a state-of-the-art learning environment in the center of the UIC campus.
The three-story building was originally designed as a shared multi -purpose general classroom facility in 1963 using the original concept of Walter Netsch’s Brutalist design, which defined UIC’s campus. The renovation consisted of a total remodel of the existing structure. The building provides an ultra-modern environment with, 6 learning studios, 12 breakout rooms, collaboration space for networking and student projects on each floor and a café.
Among the building’s new features is the CME Market Training Lab that highlights and strengthens the college’s relationships with the Chicago financial exchanges, as well as high-tech student work areas for team projects. It provides students with the experience of a real-world financial services setting in a learning environment.
The project was awarded LEED Gold Certification through the United States Green Building Council’s (USGBC). The completion of this project positions UIC at the forefront of green architecture in Chicago and amongst peer institutions throughout the country. Sustainable features include geothermal power used for central heating and cooling, Photovoltaic power generation using solar panels, low VOC materials such as made from recycled tires and terrazzo flooring made from recycled glass and mirrors, FSC certified wood, and Recycled Rainwater.






            Leadership
          Heading link



 
Copy link







    Sid
    
    Bhattacharyya  

    Professor and Associate Dean for Graduate Programs
  


Phone:


          (312) 996-8794
        



Email:


          sidb@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Andriy
    
    Bodnaruk  

    Professor and Department Head, Finance
  


Phone:


          (312) 355-4742
        



Email:


          bodnaruk@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Benét
    
    DeBerry-Spence  

    Professor and Department Head, Marketing
  


Phone:


          (312) 996-4614
        



Email:


          benet@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Ellen
    
    Engel  

    Associate Professor and Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs
  


Phone:


          (312) 413-3418
        



Email:


          elleneng@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Janya
    
    Golubeva  

    Clinical Professor and Associate Dean for Student Success
  


Phone:


          (312) 996-2980
        



Email:


          evgenia@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Andrew
    
    Hanson  

    Associate Professor and Acting Department Head, Stuart Handler Department of Real Estate
  


Phone:


          (312) 355-8711
        



Email:


          arhanson@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Michael
    
    Kirschenheiter  

    Professor and Department Head, Accounting
  


Phone:


          (312) 996-2284
        



Email:


          mkirsche@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Daniel
    
    McMillen  

    Professor and Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs
  


Phone:


          (312) 355-9490
        



Email:


          mcmillen@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    James
    
    Pierce  

    Associate Dean of Administration
  


Phone:


          (312) 996-2494
        



Email:


          jspierce@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Ali
    
    Tafti  

    Associate Professor and Department Head, Information and Decision Sciences
  


Phone:


          (201) 424-6276
        



Email:


          atafti@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Mary Beth
    
    Watson-Manheim  

    Professor and Department Head, Managerial Studies
  


Phone:


          (312) 996-2370
        



Email:


          mbwm@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    






    Sandy J.
    
    Wayne  

    Professor and Interim Dean, Director of the Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)
  


Phone:


          (312) 413-1714
        



Email:


          sjwayne@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    



















 




















Quick Links


About Us


Media


News


Corporate MBA Programs at UIC


Give to UIC Business




External Links


Visit Our Blog


UIC.edu


Visit Campus


Current Students


Phone Book


Privacy Notice








Contact Us


Contact Us






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-2700
uicbusiness@uic.edu

 

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














