 















                            Corporate MBA Programs at UIC | Business | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Business

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Undergraduate Admissions
                




                  Undergraduate Degrees
                




                  First-Year Experience
                




                  UIC Business Scholars
                




                  Pre-College Programs
                




                  Student Life at UIC Business
                




                  Business Career Center
                




                  Professional Development
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Graduate Admissions
                




                  Graduate Degrees
                




                  Doctoral Programs
                




                  Doctoral Degrees
                




                  UIC Doctoral Students
                




                  Guaranteed and Preferred Admissions
                




                  Business Career Center
                









        Departments
      


Expand Departments menu











                  Department of Accounting
                




                  Department of Finance
                




                  Department of Information and Decision Sciences
                




                  Department of Marketing
                




                  Department of Managerial Studies
                




                  Stuart Handler Department of Real Estate
                









        Alumni
      


Expand Alumni menu











                  Give to UIC Business
                




                  Why I Give
                




                  Donor Recognition Society
                




                  Student Scholarship Support
                




                  Ways to Get Involved
                




                  Alumni Leadership Academy
                




                  Contact the Office of Advancement
                









        Recruiters
      




        Faculty/Research
      


Expand Faculty/Research menu











                  Faculty
                




                  Research
                




                  Center for Applied Analytics
                




                  International Center for Futures and Derivatives (ICFD)
                




                  Institute for Leadership Excellence and Development (iLEAD)
                




                  UIC Entrepreneurial Support Program
                




                  For the Media
                




                  Faculty Recruitment
                








Eyebrow menu


Give Now


Visit Our Blog


Current UIC Business Students


About Us


Shop


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Business
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Corporate MBA Programs at UIC
At the University of Illinois Chicago, our CMBA programs focus on creating new knowledge and providing practical solutions to challenges that confront the constantly changing global business environment.
Drawing upon the range of backgrounds of our student body and UIC's strength as one of the most ethnically diverse universities in the U.S., we are committed to developing well-rounded leaders with the practical knowledge, skills, and values to compete effectively in the global marketplace.
Building on our strengths as a major research university and our location near the heart of Chicago’s business district, the Master of Business Administration program at the University of Illinois Chicago offers you the opportunity to learn the latest business theories in an environment where the application and practice of business are closely integrated into your studies. The city of Chicago provides not only a stimulating living environment, but also a living laboratory for the study of business. Students in UIC’s CMBA programs engage in case studies, business simulations, and projects. They propose new companies and compete for venture capital support, including the 1871 incubator that is Chicago’s Technology and Entrepreneurship Center, and the UIC Innovation Center. They not only learn about business—they learn how to apply their knowledge to business.
The CMBA Programs are developed to meet the needs of professionals who wish to further their careers by earning their MBA degree from an AACSB-accredited program and complete the program within a year.
Since 1994, the CMBA Programs have allowed students to complete their degree in a shorter time frame without sacrificing attention to the learning of fundamental business knowledge and practical skills needed to succeed in today’s local and global competitive environments. A key advantage of the program is its flexibility in tailoring the MBA degree to a specific area of focus: a customized curriculum focusing in Strategic and International Business Management; Financial Markets and Asset Management; Management of Healthcare; Commodities, Exchanges and Derivatives; or Business Analytics. The program develops a full range of contemporary management skills and cultural awareness that enables students to compete effectively in today's global business environment.






            The UIC Advantage
          Heading link



 
Copy link



As part of the UIC College of Business Administration, students of the CMBA Programs have both corporate and academic advantages. Located in Chicago, one of the top ten economically influential cities in the world, students have access to UIC’s close ties with major financial and corporate resources within walking distance from campus. Students also benefit from close collaboration with renowned UIC faculty. Learn more about Life at UIC.






            Program Overview
          Heading link



 
Copy link






The CMBA Programs truly offers a world-class education in a world-class city. We welcome your interest and look forward to receiving your application.
Cohort-based. Students enter the program with a group (called a cohort). All students in a given cohort take the same courses at the same time throughout the program. The academic plan for each cohort is constructed by the CMBA Office.
Each cohort follows one of five academic tracks: Strategic and International Business Management (SIM), Financial Markets and Asset Management (FMAM), Management of Healthcare (MOH), Commodities, Exchanges and Derivatives (CED) or Business Analytics (BA).
Time efficient. The relatively shorter time frame of this program is achieved by making the program somewhat more intensive than the traditional two-year, full-time MBA programs.
Care is taken to make sure students in each area of focus can take the full range of core and advanced coursework within one calendar year to fulfill their degree requirements. We utilize the entire summer to achieve this goal, as well as the regular spring and fall terms.
Solid Quality. All the five areas of focus require 54-credit coursework, including MBA core courses, industry exposure courses and track-specific courses. Students will gain a combination of core business skills and specialized expertise.






            Areas of Focus
          Heading link



 
Copy link






            Strategic and International Business Management
          

The CMBA Program with a focus in Strategic and International Business Management seeks to foster an understanding of international business practices and culture together with knowledge of the core functional areas of business and to allow students to develop their judgment and ability in applying this knowledge in a global business environment.
Advanced courses (minimum of 24 credit hours). Representative courses include:

Corporate Strategy
Supply Chain Management
Marketing Strategy
Negotiations
Product Development
Global Strategy
Business Visualization
Global Innovation Leadership





            Financial Markets and Asset Management
          

The CMBA Program with a focus in Financial Markets and Asset Management is designed to further careers of financial professionals by enhancing their understanding of financial markets, asset management, and the operation of financial institutions in the dynamic global economy. Drawing on the resources of the financial community of Chicago, the program provides up-to-date knowledge in the theory and practice of financial markets and asset management.
Advanced courses (minimum of 24 credit hours). Representative courses include:

Investments
Portfolio Analysis
Statistics for Financial Markets
Fixed Income Securities
Chicago Exchanges
Alternative Investments
Quantitative Investing
Money and Banking





            Management of Healthcare
          

The CMBA Program with a focus in Management of Healthcare is designed to further the careers of healthcare professionals by encouraging the development of contemporary management skills and cultural awareness necessary to deliver innovative health care services in the twenty-first century. The program further develops international students’ understanding of general business management and healthcare management by enhancing their understanding of the U.S. public health policies, administration, services, and management practices. It strives to empower students to utilize their existing knowledge base with those developed in the program to construct a truly integrated health care system.
In addition to the core coursework, students in the program are encouraged to take advantage of the variety of lectures, grand rounds, and other opportunities in healthcare on campus and in the community.
Advanced courses (minimum of 24 credit hours). Representative courses include:

Human Resources Management in Healthcare
Strategic Management
Healthcare Economics
Public Health Management
American Healthcare Institutions
Healthcare Informatics
Operations of Public Hospitals
Business Data Visualization





            Commodities, Exchanges and Derivatives
          

The CMBA Program with a focus in Commodities, Exchanges and Derivatives derives a unique advantage from its prime location in the city of Chicago, which is home to the world’s largest futures exchanges, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Group; and the world’s largest options exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange. Chicago is the origination and global center of the commodities, exchanges and financial derivatives. In addition to these institutions, many large multinational securities and futures firms have offices in the city. This environment provides students with many opportunities to interact with leading experts in the industry and to become acquainted with the most advanced technology in the field.
The advanced courses provide rigorous theory training and industry exposure in the track of CED and equip students on depth and breadth within each sub area of commodities, exchanges and derivatives.
Advanced courses (minimum of 24 credit hours). Representative courses include:

Chicago Exchanges
Money and Banking
Quantitative Methods for Finance
Investments
Commodities and Asset Pricing
Futures and Options
Futures and Options, Advanced
Introduction to Quantamental Investing





            Business Analytics
          

The CMBA Program with a focus in Business Analytics equips students with the business knowledge and analytics skills required for evidence-based and data-driven decisions to achieve efficient business operations, superior organizational performance, and effective management in industry. The cutting-edge curriculum seamlessly integrates core courses in functional areas of business with advanced courses in data visualization, statistical modeling, data mining, and analytics strategies and practices.
Advanced courses (minimum of 24 credit hours). Representative courses include:

Programming for Data Science in Business
Business Database Technology
Statistics for Business
Data Mining for Business
Social Media and Network Analysis
Analytics for Big Data
Business Data Visualization
Advanced Text Analytics for Business










            Admissions
          Heading link



 
Copy link




Criteria for Candidates
Ideal candidates for the CMBA Programs are young professionals who want to advance their career with an MBA but find it difficult to be away from the workplace for more than one year, or recent graduates and are looking for a quality program to enhance their skills and career potential. To be considered for admission to the program, individuals should have:

A bachelor’s degree with satisfactory grades
Strong English language skills
Analytical and quantitative skills and/or professional experience are preferred.
For the FMAM and CED focuses, prior study of calculus and statistics is highly recommended.
For the BA focus, prior study and/or work experience in business, science, engineering, technology, or related fields are preferred.

These minimum criteria only qualify a candidate for consideration and do not guarantee an offer of admission.​






Google Maps image
    





            UIC Corporate MBA Programs
          Heading link



 
Copy link




601 S. Morgan St.,
2502 UH,
MC 074,
Chicago,
Illinois
60607


Phone: (312) 996-5503
Fax: (312) 413-4201
Email: cmba@uic.edu









            Frequently Asked Questions
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            How do the CMBA Programs differ from other MBA programs at UIC?
                    








            CMBA vs. MBA
          

All students earning an MBA degree from UIC will receive the same diploma irrespective of the program format.
However, traditional campus MBA programs are typically designed for students to study full time over a two-year period or part time over an extended period while still employed. Students individually choose their courses to meet the degree requirements, including an advanced area of study.
In contrast, our students go through the program together as a cohort— allowing the entire degree program to be tailored to the needs of the group, including sequence, delivery and selection of advanced courses or the development of special topic courses. To accomplish program goals, the CMBA Programs Office, working with the sponsoring organization, may modify instructional schedules and the selection of advanced courses after the program begins.







                            How are the programs structured?
                    








            Program Structure
          

Courses for the CMBA Programs are scheduled in a number of modules varying in length over the one-year period. There is one major vacation break at the end of December.
Course work in the CMBA Programs is scheduled to allow students to complete program requirements within one year. The program area of focus is tailored to the needs of the particular cohort.







                            How do I apply?
                    








            Applying
          

Students can apply through the online application portal under UIC admissions, instructed by a sponsoring organization or corporation working in partnership with UIC. Individual applicants should contact cmba@uic.edu.







                            What areas of focus do you offer in the CMBA Programs?
                    








            Areas of Focus
          

We currently offer five areas of focus in Strategic and International Business Management, Financial Markets and Asset Management, Management of Healthcare, Commodities, Exchanges and Derivatives, and Business Analytics.
Other areas of focus were offered and new areas may be developed based on expressions of interest from sponsoring organizations. The college has areas of particular strength in strategy, finance, accounting and entrepreneurship. Please contact our office directly for more information.
The CMBA Programs are based in a major public urban research university, which allows these programs to draw on the breadth and depth of faculty in the College of Business Administration and on the broader expertise and resources of the university. The programs additionally utilize the resources of the City of Chicago and the metropolitan area.







                            How is it possible to complete the degree program in one year?
                    








            12-Month Completion
          










The relatively shorter timeframe for the CMBA Programs is achieved by making the program somewhat more intensive than the traditional full-time MBA programs and by greatly reducing the amount of vacation time. Instead of four terms of study spread over 16 to 21 months in a typical two-year program, our programs require a slightly more demanding course load: all degree requirements are met within the one-year program.





























                            When did the programs begin?
                    








            Program establishment
          

The CMBA programs were established in 1994 to meet the needs of professionals who wish to further their careers by earning their MBA degree from an AACSB-accredited program and complete the program within a year. Since its foundation, it has been developing and offering areas of focus based on the market demands.
SIM track (formerly as IM, AIM), launched in 1994.
FMAM track (formerly as FM), launched in 1994.
MOH track, launched in 2014, was originally customized on the needs of the Ministry of Health of China.
CED track, launched in 2019.
BA track, launched in 2022.







                            Am I eligible for OPT after completing the study in the CMBA programs?
                    








            One-year OPT
          

CMBA graduates can apply for one-year OPT after the study as long as they have valid F-1 student visa status. For those pursing a joint degree program (ex: CMBA-MSF joint degree), students can apply to receive up to three-year OPT after graduating from the joint program.





















 




















Quick Links


About Us


Media


News


Corporate MBA Programs at UIC


Give to UIC Business




External Links


Visit Our Blog


UIC.edu


Visit Campus


Current Students


Phone Book


Privacy Notice








Contact Us


Contact Us






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-2700
uicbusiness@uic.edu

 

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














