 












                            Graduate | Richard and Loan Hill Department of Biomedical Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Richard and Loan Hill Department of Biomedical Engineering

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Admitted Students
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Biomedical Engineering Major
                




                  Biomedical Engineering Minor
                




                  Courses
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Senior Design
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Admitted Students
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Programs
                




                  PhD Programs
                




                  PhD Dissertations
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Index
                




                  Lab Websites
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  About Us
                




                  Department Head
                




                  Core Faculty
                




                  Affiliate Faculty
                




                  Emeriti
                




                  Academic Advisors
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Jobs
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Annual Report
                




                  Newsletter
                




                  News Archive
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Event Calendar
                




                  Annual Events
                




                  Research Symposium
                




                  Seminar Archive
                








Eyebrow menu


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering


UIC Medicine


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Richard and Loan Hill Department of Biomedical Engineering
              
Colleges of Engineering and Medicine 









Graduate





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon
















            text
          Heading link



 
Copy link



UIC graduate students in biomedical engineering and bioinformatics have access to the resources of two colleges with proven reputations of excellence in their fields: the College of Engineering and the College of Medicine. They also benefit from the guidance of faculty who lead worldwide in academic research and occupy the cutting edge of implementation and practice.
These are just some of the advantages available to you:






            text
          Heading link



 
Copy link






A vibrant community of fellow scholars. UIC biomedical engineering and bioinformatics graduate students are active, driven, and independent scholars-in-training. They gain hands-on experience as research assistants in faculty labs, contribute to and run their own student research journal, and share research through the Bioengineering Graduate Society. Whether you want to collaborate with others or work independently on your own investigations, your options include research facilities on campus or through the cross-university consortium known as the Discovery Partners Institute.
Medical Scientist Training Program. This competitive program offered through UIC’s College of Medicine provides students with seven years of support to pursue both an MD and PhD. Graduates of this program emerge with the preparation they need to push the boundaries of academic medicine and research. MD/PhDs are well regarded for their ability to translate advances in science into real progress in patient care. Learn more here.






            text
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Chicago, a world-renowned site for biomedical research and practice. The city of Chicago is home to major medical centers and institutes where graduate students can gain valuable experience in the field. In addition to our close affiliation with the clinical and research programs of the University of Illinois Medical Center, there are opportunities for internships at major biomedical manufacturers in the city and the greater metropolitan region, including Abbott, Baxter, Biomet, General Electric, and Siemens.
Excellent career outcomes—whether your target is academia or industry. Over the last five years, students in the MS and PhD programs in biomedical engineering and bioinformatics have secured the kinds of positions they envisioned when they first began their studies. (Curious where our graduate students have landed? Visit our post-graduation outcomes page). UIC biomedical engineering and bioinformatics students are fully supported in their career search: by the connections and advocacy of our faculty, our college’s corporate ties to world-class biomedical firms, and the personal attention of our student affairs team and other staff.
Learn more about graduate study in biomedical engineering and bioinformatics at UIC. Choose your degree program below:





            programs
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Master's programs
                    









                            PhD programs
                    









                            Contact us
                    












Graduate


Back to main content









Admissions 


Apply Now 

Financial Aid and Funding 

Contact Us 



Admitted Students 


Graduate Program FAQ 



Courses 

MS Programs 


MS in Biomedical Engineering 

MS in Bioinformatics 

MS Thesis Guidelines 



PhD Programs 


PhD in Biomedical Engineering 

PhD in Bioinformatics 

Preliminary Examinations 

Dissertation Process 



PhD Dissertations 

Post-Graduation Outcomes 

Student Groups 

Student Resources 


Fellowships and Awards 















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































ABOUT UIC BME


Contact


Accreditation


About Us




Campus Resources


Laboratory Safety


Counseling Center


Disability Resource Center (DRC)


Webstore (Software Purchasing)


Visit UIC Campus


UIC SAFE Mobile App




Department Resources


Purchasing and Reimbursements


HR Procedures


Room Reservations


Announcement Request


Media Resources


Online Learning


Teaching Online Essentials


Research Resources








Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Phone: 312 996 2335
Fax: 312 996 5921
bme@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












