 















                            Research Resources | College of Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































College of Engineering

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Admitted Students
                




                  Advising
                




                  Career Outcomes
                




                  Diversity
                




                  Engineering Expo
                




                  FAQ
                




                  Guaranteed Paid Intern Program
                




                  Majors and Minors
                




                  Scholarships
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Programs Index
                




                  International Programs
                









        Departments
      




        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Interdisciplinary Research
                




                  Labs and Centers
                









        Support UIC
      


Expand Support UIC menu











                  Donate Online
                




                  How to Give
                




                  Help Students
                




                  Empower Faculty
                




                  Capital Projects
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Dean
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Administration
                




                  Advisory Board
                




                  Alumni
                




                  Diversity
                




                  Facilities
                




                  Summer Camp
                




                  News
                




                  Contact
                








Eyebrow menu


Give


Careers


Alumni


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                College of Engineering
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

College of Engineering


About


Faculty


Research Resources






Research Resources




Positive COVID-19 case?
Learn what to do





            Critical Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Daily symptom reporting form
                    

                Faculty and staff working on campus must submit this form for each day they come in to work.
            









                            On-campus saliva testing program
                    

                UIC offers free saliva testing at three campus locations for employees and students.
            









                            UIC Today "umbrella" FAQ
                    

                Answers to questions of all types related to COVID-19 (sorted by topic)
            










            Restart Research Procedures
          Heading link



 
Copy link



EHSO has established requirements that must be completed to ensure the health and safety of the research community on campus. All 3 steps below must be completed before resuming research or starting new research projects.





                            1. Register Lab with BioRAFT
                    








            1. Register Lab with BioRAFT
          

All Principal Investigators (PIs) must register with BioRAFT, a research management tool that tracks all labs, lab members, research hazards, and safety training requirements.

Sign in at https://uic.bioraft.com using your UIC NetID and password
Follow the instructions at Safe Return to Research with BioRaft to:

Identify your building, labs and work spaces, and contact information
Indicate your group’s emergency operational status
Add all research group members and identify research activities






      Instructions: Safe Return to Research with BioRaft
    



      PI Quick Start Guide for Registering a Laboratory
    



      BioRAFT FAQ
    









                            2. Complete the COVID-19 Lab Reopening Checklist
                    








            2. Complete the COVID-19 Lab Reopening Checklist
          


Sign in at https://uic.bioraft.com using your UIC NetID and password
Follow the instructions at Safe Return to Research with BioRaft or the steps below:

Go to Self Inspections in left pane and hit Add a new Self Inspection on right side
Choose COVID-19 Lab Reopening Checklist from drop-down
Hit Inspect button at the bottom, COVID-19 Pandemic Findings will populate
Add details under each check point and hit Save button
EHSO will review in few days



Frequently Asked Questions

Can one of my students help me complete the checklist? Yes. Select checkbox next to Group Compliance Liaison / CHO of desired lab member.




      Instructions: Safe Return to Research with BioRaft
    



      Printable version of the Lab Reopening Checklist
    



      BioRAFT FAQ
    









                            3. Receive College and Department Approval
                    








            3. Obtain College and Department Approval
          

Dean and department head will provide final approval for research operations.

If your labs checklist has been approved by EHSO, forward it to your department head and await further instructions.
If you have not received approval from EHSO, please email labsafety@uic.edu.













            Screening, Monitoring, and Reporting
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Temperature and Wellness Reporting
                    








            Temperature and Wellness Reporting
          


Staff returning to the on-campus workplace must conduct symptom monitoring every day before reporting to work. Staff members must be free of ANY symptoms potentially related to COVID-19 or have had evaluation and clearance by University Health Services to be eligible to report to work.
Temperature monitoring will be required following established protocols. Access the UIC temperature reporting form here. For general information on temperature monitoring, refer to the COVID-19 Public Spaces and Office Safety Guidance document.

Guidance specific to the College of Engineering:
Each day an individual comes to campus, that person must fill out the UIC temperature and symptom reporting form. Based on the answers provided, the system will immediately return a result of “Admit” (in which case the person may come to campus) or “No Admit” (in which case the person may not come in).
When an individual scans a UIC ID card to enter a building, the system will note the entry and determine whether the person had received “Admit” clearance for the day. If an “Admit” clearance is not on file for that specific day, a violation will be entered in the card access system 30 minutes past the time of entry. Individuals who enter without submitting a reporting form will receive an email 30 minutes after entry asking them to submit the form and receive “Admit” clearance in order to remain on campus.
COE procedures for noncompliance are as follows:

For each notice of violation, the responsible lab safety manager will communicate with lab director (faculty PI), who will need to vouch in writing that the individual in violation is healthy and has subsequently submitted the reporting form.
Upon any violation, if a lab has had two prior violations during the past 30 days, the lab safety manager must notify the department head.
If any lab has had five violations during the past 30 days, the department must notify the dean.








                            Personal Safety Practices
                    








            Personal Safety Practices
          

Refer to this page for information on personal safety practices such as:

Face masks
Social distancing
Using elevators
Cleaning/disinfection
Meetings








                            Reporting Safety Concerns
                    








            Reporting Safety Concerns
          


If you do not have the need to remain anonymous, please contact EHSO directly at labsafety@uic.edu. It is much easier to resolve safety issues when EHSO has access to your contact information.
If it is important for you to remain anonymous, please include as much information as possible and report anonymously using the link below.




      Anonymous Safety Concern Report Form
    














            COVID-19 Safety Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            University policies and procedures
                    








            links
          


Campus public health requirements
“Circle back to campus” topic index (scroll to bottom of linked page)








                            Guidance for building and lab managers
                    








            links
          


University public health requirements
Checklist for the safe reopening of research laboratories
Guidance for safety in public spaces and offices
Pandemic recovery annexes for UIC buildings
Signage and other printable resources
COE lab door sign (download-and-print PNG file)
FAQ for facility recovery managers













            Related Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Laboratory Safety
                      



                                        BioRAFT General Information
                                



                                        Lab Safety Responsibilities for PIs
                                



                                        UIC Lab Visitor Policy
                                





                            Whom to Ask?
                      



                                        Contact EHSO
                                



                                        Anonymously Report Safety Concerns
                                



                                        Report an Injury
                                



                                        Report Attempted Unemployment Insurance Fraud
                                








Try the new
research expertise finder








About


Back to main content









Dean 

Faculty 


Distinguished Professors 

Book Dedications 

Faculty Development 

Faculty Honors 

Faculty Meetings 

Teaching Resources 

Research Resources 



Administration 


Graduate Research Staff 



Advisory Board 

Alumni 

Diversity 

Facilities 


Engineering Innovation Building 

MakerSpace 



Summer Camp 

News 


RISE 



Contact 













 
































Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 College of Engineering
851 S. Morgan St., MC 159, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3463
uic-engr@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














