 












                            HiPerCAS Lab | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































HiPerCAS Lab

Main Menu




        Research
      




        Faculty
      




        Team
      




        Publications
      




        Contact
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                HiPerCAS Lab
              
College of Engineering 































                    ISCAS 2022 Austin, Texas
                  
















                    2019 UCLA CHIPS Workshop
                  
















                    PhD defense & celebration
                  
















                    ISCAS VSA-TC 2018 Meeting, Florence, Italy
                  
















                    UofR Women in STEM – Making a Difference
                  
















                    Teaching ECE 467 - Spring 2022
                  
















                    Cybersecurity researchers visit at UIC
                  

















                  Pause or play the slideshow
                





                  Show the next item
                














                  Show the next item
                















                    Show slide number 1
                  





                    Show slide number 2
                  





                    Show slide number 3
                  





                    Show slide number 4
                  





                    Show slide number 5
                  





                    Show slide number 6
                  





                    Show slide number 7
                  
















WELCOME TO THE HiPerCAS TEAM!​
Our research is focused on innovation in the area of energy efficient, high performance, secure VLSI systems.  Special emphasis is placed on co-design across levels of VLSI design abstraction, including design methodologies,  system architectures, algorithms, circuits, and emerging devices. On-going work spans design of artificially intelligent hardware, enabling neuromorphic devices at the circuit and architectural levels, and shifting electronic design automation paradigms through learning.
HiPerCAS is hiring Ph.D. students for Spring and Fall 2023. We are seeking curious and motivated students to conduct fully funded research at the intersection of data science, VLSI design, and electronic design automation. Several individual and collaborative projects with top U.S. universities are available.













            Latest News
          Heading link



 
Copy link



09/2022: Received Advising Award!
09/2022: Congratulations to Dmitry for his paper, Multiterminal Pathfinding in Practical VLSI Systems with Deep Neural Networks, accepted for publication in ACM Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems (TODAES).
09/2022: Congratulations to Farid for defending his PhD thesis on Heterogeneous Machine Learning Circuits for Nanoscale Integrated Systems and starting a Silicon Architect position at Google, Mountain View, CA.


      Older News
    

















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 Inna Partin-Vaisband, Lab Director
851 S. Morgan St. (MC 154), 1113 SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 355-2877
vaisband@uic.edu

 




Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












