 












                            Internships and Jobs | Richard and Loan Hill Department of Biomedical Engineering | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Richard and Loan Hill Department of Biomedical Engineering

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Admitted Students
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Biomedical Engineering Major
                




                  Biomedical Engineering Minor
                




                  Courses
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Senior Design
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Admitted Students
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Programs
                




                  PhD Programs
                




                  PhD Dissertations
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Index
                




                  Lab Websites
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  About Us
                




                  Department Head
                




                  Core Faculty
                




                  Affiliate Faculty
                




                  Emeriti
                




                  Academic Advisors
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Jobs
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Annual Report
                




                  Newsletter
                




                  News Archive
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Upcoming Events
                




                  Event Calendar
                




                  Annual Events
                




                  Research Symposium
                




                  Seminar Archive
                








Eyebrow menu


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering


UIC Medicine


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Richard and Loan Hill Department of Biomedical Engineering
              
Colleges of Engineering and Medicine 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Internships and Jobs
This page is designed to help biomedical engineering and bioinformatics students to focus on the events, listings, and resources that align with their chosen field. Undergraduates are encouraged to complete at least two internships before graduation—for skill development as well as a competitive edge in the full-time job search. The Engineering Career Center (ECC) is here to help you along the way! Visit its site early (and often) to make the most of its resources and dedicated staff.






            Learn how Research Experiences for Undergraduates can advance your career
          Heading link



 
Copy link








User icon






Visit the BME REUs page






Document icon









Visit the NSF REUs page









            Find out about UIC Engineering's Guaranteed Paid Internship Program
          Heading link



 
Copy link








User icon






Visit the GPIP page for freshmen






People Icon


 
Visit the GPIP page for transfers









            Prepare for your search
          Heading link



 
Copy link






            Biomedical engineering titles to search
          


Analyst
Biomedical Engineer
Consultant
Engineer I





            list 2
          


Lab Technician
Manufacturing Engineer
Product Development Engineer
Quality Engineer





            list 3
          


Regulatory Affairs Associate
Systems Engineer
Systems and Risk Engineer
Sustaining Engineer










            Where to search
          Heading link



 
Copy link






            Biomedical engineering websites
          


UIC Biomedical Engineering Clinical Immersion Program
iBio Career Center
American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering
Biomedical Engineering Society
BioSpace
Nature Jobs
NSF REUs (Research Experiences for Undergraduates)
Higher Education Recruitment Consortium





            Bioengineering incubators
          


Matter
mHUB
Insight Accelerator Labs








Visit the
Engineering Career Center






            What do BME alumni do after graduation?
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The mini-profiles below offer a few examples of the thousands of rewarding careers pursued by alumni of UIC’s undergraduate programs in biomedical engineering and bioinformatics.






            Suha Mohiuddin, BS ’20
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Medical Student
UIC College of Medicine
Why study engineering? Engineering is incredibly fulfilling. You’re studying concepts and theories while also learning how to apply them in the real world. It’s a challenging field, but it teaches you how to approach problems systematically, deconstruct them, and develop novel solutions. The opportunity to study multiple things — materials science, physics, biochemistry, 3D design — and then bring them together is what kept me excited and motivated during my four years.
What about UIC prepared you for the world after college? At UIC, there was always a strong emphasis on team-based learning. So many of my classes — Clinical Problem Solving, Medical Technology, and Senior Design — focused on our ability to communicate and work effectively in groups. As a medical student, I find myself constantly using the skills I learned in those classes while working in interdisciplinary teams of doctors, other healthcare providers, and researchers.
Tell us more about what you learned from working in groups. We know that teams work more effectively and produce better results when members with different backgrounds and experiences have their voices heard. Whether it’s identifying issues with a product’s design or accessibility or catching the subtle biases that are present even in computer code, the value of diverse engineers cannot be understated.






            Shivani Senguttuvan, BS ’20
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Quality engineer
Cognizant Technology Solutions
Why did you choose a bioinformatics concentration for your biomedical engineering major? Studying bioinformatics allows you to leverage computational approaches to understand molecular and biological data. Bioinformatics is the perfect fit for anyone interested in addressing medical challenges using computer science. There is an enormous amount of research being done in this field, including efforts to personalize medicine. Learning bioinformatics will help you enhance the quality of treatment given to patients.
What work experience did you gain during college? Through the College of Engineering’s Guaranteed Paid Internship Program, I interned at the Shirley Ryan Ability Lab. I performed speech signal processing using the SciPy library in Python to identify the pathological features of stroke patients with speech deficits. I was able to apply what I had learned in my classes to real-world projects. My research experience in UIC’s Center for Bioinformatics and Quantitative Biology also helped prepare me for the working world. I built my computer science, machine learning, and problem-solving skills. My coursework also included a plethora of projects that I still refer to. I am confident that I am successful in my current role because of the education I received at UIC.
Course recommendation: BME 530 Statistics and Machine Learning for Bioengineering and Bioinformatics. We analyzed and drew conclusions from various molecular, genetic, and clinical data. I loved finding meaning behind data by leveraging my skills in machine learning and statistics. The projects were directly related to medicine, and it felt incredibly impactful to take this course.






            Christine Rachel Joseph, BS ’16
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Human factors engineer
Medtronic
How did your major prepare you for the working world? UIC gave me my first true experiences working on interdisciplinary teams, learning about user-centered design, and immersing myself in the biomedical innovation process! The way they teach biomedical engineering at UIC is amazingly real: very practical, very patient-centric, with lots of opportunities to find your niche.
Favorite course: BME 496-497 Senior Design. That was where I felt ready to work on a capstone: to immerse myself in ideation, invention, and innovation in the context of engineering design, while learning to work and lead and follow in an interdisciplinary team. It was rewarding to see an idea to fruition and to learn from our successes as well as our failures.
The value of diversity: Diverse perspectives lead to broader, better inputs to any system. We’re all individuals with our own set of experiences, ideas, triumphs, and struggles. To bring your full self to work or school is so important to ensure no voice is left behind.
Looking back: I loved my time at UIC. It was such a rewarding college experience in the greatest city, where the lines between college and life were so uniquely blurred. I had no such expectations when I began, but now, looking back on how my perspective broadened and my worldview developed because of the people I met and the things I did, it all feels like it was meant to be!






            Nicholas Marjanovic, BS ’15
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Chief Technology Officer
HideIt Wearables
What’s great about your job? Being able to work on a problem that pops up during design and then apply the engineering process to come up with an awesome solution. Having something finally work after dedicating so many hours or days tackling it is the best feeling ever!
How do you hope your work will create positive change in the world? I hope my work will allow individuals with disabilities to seamlessly connect and interact with the digital world around them.
What was your favorite course? BME 431, a class dedicated to teaching you hands-on about electronic components and how they are used to build systems of devices.
Why did you choose UIC? UIC is a one-of-a-kind institution with a small-town feel where everyone is welcome to work with one another to tackle all issues presented. I chose UIC because it has the reputation of a top engineering school with all the assets available to guarantee success.






            Ryan Orda, BS ’15
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Research and Development Engineer
Abbott Laboratories
What’s great about your job? Getting to see the full scope of a project and the direct impact of the work.
What do you hope to be doing 10 years from now? I hope to continue advancing the technology of the medical-device industry and eliminate the problems and limitations of today.
Is there an aspect of studying in Chicago in particular that you feel benefited you? The ease of accessing a diverse set of resources was hugely beneficial.
What was your favorite course? My favorite course was Interdisciplinary Product Development.
Coolest thing you’ve done in the past year: I had an opportunity to travel to Barcelona to collaborate with a third party on development of a new medical instrument for Abbott.








Internships and Jobs


Back to main content









Research Experiences for Undergraduates 













 
University of Illinois Chicago











































ABOUT UIC BME


Contact


Accreditation


About Us




Campus Resources


Laboratory Safety


Counseling Center


Disability Resource Center (DRC)


Webstore (Software Purchasing)


Visit UIC Campus


UIC SAFE Mobile App




Department Resources


Purchasing and Reimbursements


HR Procedures


Room Reservations


Announcement Request


Media Resources


Online Learning


Teaching Online Essentials


Research Resources








Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Phone: 312 996 2335
Fax: 312 996 5921
bme@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












