 















                            Prospective | Psychology | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Psychology

Main Menu




        Programs
      


Expand Programs menu











                  Undergraduate Studies
                




                  Graduate Studies
                









        Prospective
      




        Diversity
      


Expand Diversity menu











                  Mission Statement
                




                  Diversity Advancement Committee
                




                  Programs and Initiatives
                




                  Faculty Research
                




                  Resources
                




                  The Black Scholar Series
                









        People
      


Expand People menu











                  Faculty
                




                  By Program
                




                  Administration
                




                  Graduate Students
                




                  Research Associate
                




                  Staff
                









        Resources
      


Expand Resources menu











                  Courses
                




                  Undergraduate Resources
                




                  Faculty and Staff Resources
                




                  Human Subjects
                




                  Contact Us
                









        DEPARTMENT
      


Expand DEPARTMENT menu











                  News
                




                  Calendar
                








Eyebrow menu


las.uic.edu


+Give


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Psychology
              
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 









Prospective





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon
















            Earn Your Degree with UIC Psychology
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Are you interested in earning a degree in Psychology? Well, you’ve come to the right place! The Department of Psychology at UIC integrates study of the brain, mind, person, group, and community in downtown Chicago – at one of the U.S.’s most diverse campuses! We are a nationally recognized academic department for excellence in research and teaching.
Learn more about our the application process for undergraduate and graduate study, funding, and admissions FAQ.






            Apply for Admission
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Discover more information about the Admissions process below.







                                Undergraduate Admission
                          


                                Graduate Admission
                          


                                Graduate Application Process
                          


                                Intercollege Transfer and Dual Degree Options
                          


                                Admissions FAQ
                          








            Undergraduate Admission
          




As a department within a large diverse urban research institution, the department of Psychology at UIC reflected excellence in education, research, and practice. Our department offers two undergraduate psychology degrees, BS in Psychology and a BA in Applied Psychology. We also invite students from other disciplines to add psychology as a minor in their educational pursuits. Our department collaborate with several other departments on campus including Educational Psychology, Neuroscience, Public Health, and Psychiatry to name a few.
Undergraduate courses are available in a number of psychology disciplines including clinical, cognitive, community, developmental, social, personality, and neuroscience . Courses cross-listed with African-American and Gender and Women’s studies are available as well. In addition, practice opportunities are available to undergraduates through courses in crisis counseling, interviewing, and an internship class. Psychology leads the campus in the number of undergraduate students involved in research. Small laboratory classes are offered that give students hands-on experience with research, there are ample opportunities to get involved in ongoing research projects conducted by UIC psychology faculty, and undergraduate students can conduct directed research under faculty supervision.
Application Deadlines:
Early Action – November 1st
Regular Decision – February 15th
Transfer Deadline – May 16th 
*It is critical to start your submission in advance of these dates to avoid technical issues*



      Apply for Undergrad
    



      Tuition and Financial Aid
    



      UIC Scholarships and Awards Program (SnAP)
    



      UIC Job Board
    












            Graduate Admission
          




There are many paths to graduate school and we recognize that qualified applicants excel in different ways. Different program areas in Psychology emphasize different methodologies as appropriate to the nature of the essential questions they seek to address. We use a holistic review to consider applicants’ academic history and look for relevant experiences and interests that fit the scholarship of the intended program. Our PhD program is a full-time, day, research-oriented program that begins once a year in the Fall.
Please Note: We do NOT require the GRE for admission nor do we offer a terminal or standalone Master’s degree. Students who are admitted into a PhD program will complete a research apprenticeship during their first-year and along with one year of coursework in statistics. After completion of the first-year, students work towards and submit a Master’s thesis by the end of their second year to prepare them for further research and the required qualifying examinations to advance to PhD candidacy by the end of the third year.
Program Code: 20FS0338PHD | Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
PhD Application Deadline: December 1st
*It is critical to start your submission in advance of this date to avoid technical issues*



      Apply for Grad
    



      Domestic Requirements
    



      International Requirements
    



      Graduate Course Offerings
    



      Tuition and Financial Aid
    



      Faculty Reviewing Applicants for fall 2023
    



      Faculty NOT Reviewing or Accepting Applicants for fall 2023
    












            Graduate Application Process
          

In the UIC Psychology PhD program, students will

develop expertise as research scientists using a variety of approaches in one of our four major research areas: Brain & Cognitive Sciences, Clinical, Community & Prevention Research, and Social & Personality
develop quantitative skills in our core statistics curriculum
complete coursework in their major area of study, and can add breadth of expertise in a minor area study in Psychology, Statistics, Methods & Measurement, Diversity Science, or a self-designed curriculum
publish their work in selective peer-reviewed journals
present their research at local, national, and international conferences
are competitive for a variety of research, teaching, and travel awards as well as external funding mechanisms for research
gain experience teaching and mentoring one of the most diverse undergraduate populations in the country

Please Note: We do NOT require the GRE for admission nor do we offer a terminal or standalone Master’s degree. We only admit students into our PhD program in Psychology. In the course of the program, students complete:

a Master of Arts (MA) thesis to demonstrate research and writing competence, and
a Preliminary Exam to demonstrate scholarship and mastery of the skills necessary to complete the PhD.

Please prepare the following required documents to apply. All required materials are to be submitted electronically through the online application. Hard copy materials of transcripts, exam scores, personal statements, or letters of recommendation are not accepted. Only applicants receiving offers of admission will need to submit official transcripts to the Office of Graduate Admissions and Records – AFTER receiving an offer.
Required Materials


Personal statement: This should include information about how you have prepared for graduate school in psychology, research questions and methodologies that you have experience with, research interests for graduate training, long-term goals, and faculty you would like as a research mentor.  There is no formatting requirement or page limit to your personal statement.
Curriculum Vitae: This should include such sections as Education, Employment, Awards & Honors, Skills, Research Experience, Presentations/Publications, Memberships, Extracurricular/Volunteer Activities.
Transcripts: Upload electronic, unofficial copies for all undergraduate and graduate coursework through the online application system.  While a 3.0 and above GPA is ​favorable, it is not required to apply.  View previous applicant data.
Evidence of quantitative training: The PhD in Psychology is a research-focused program, with a core curriculum in graduate-level statistics for all students. Please upload a document listing evidence of previous quantitative training. Examples include: Undergraduate courses taken grades earned (math, statistics, research design), independent research projects with statistical analyses (e.g. Capstone, honors thesis, publication), and/or GRE quantitative scores. Students are placed in the appropriate level of coursework based on their incoming quantitative competence. See this sample for examples.
Three letters of recommendation: Please enter the names and email addresses for three letter writers in the application and the system will email them a link where they can upload electronic copies of the recommendation letter. We do not accept hard or emailed copies; they must be uploaded by your recommender per the link they will receive after their name and email address is entered into the application.

Letter writers should be familiar with the applicant’s training and academic achievements and should be in position to comment on the applicant’s suitability for a graduate career involving research.


Program: Please indicate to which of our four programs you are applying. Only one program choice is permitted.
Faculty mentors: Please indicate up to three faculty mentors that you would like to work under.  Write their last name only. At least one faculty mentor is required to be listed in order for your application to be given full consideration. You can find out more information about our ​faculty members and their research interests. The lists of faculty who will be reviewing applicants and those who will not be reviewing or accepting new graduate students for Fall 2023 can be found in the Graduate Admissions tab on this page.

Optional Materials


Standardized Tests: We do NOT require the GRE for admission into our PhD program. If the applying student chooses to submit a test score, it will be evaluated as supporting evidence of academic preparation, but the absence of such test results will not be weighed against your application.
Miscellaneous Academic Documents: If you would like to share any publications, writing samples, additional transcripts, or other documents they can be uploaded here. Please note that this an optional area and no documents are required to be uploaded here. Please disregard any emails you may receive about your application being incomplete due to missing Miscellaneous Academic Documents.

Additional Information

Undocumented Students: All of our faculty members are highly encouraged to disregard documented status as a criterion for admission. All students with DACA status are eligible for the same funding opportunities as the rest of our admitted students, and those students without DACA status are still eligible for funding, just a more limited range of funding. Please see our Frequently Asked Questions for more information.
International Students: We have a diverse student population and currently have several international students in the department. To ensure you are submitting the correct documents along with your application please visit the website for the Office of Admissions and the website for the Office of International Services.

Applicants whose native language is not English must take either the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the exam of the International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Click hereto know about the required scores.













            Intercollege Transfer and Dual Degree Options
          




The psychology major is very popular and annually confers the most undergraduate degrees in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Students may choose to major in general or applied psychology. A wide range of career paths is available to our graduates both within psychology (clinical, counseling, industrial organizational, etc) and in related fields such as occupational therapy, police work, speech and language pathology, and many others. In addition, a psychology major can be excellent preparation for further professional training in law, medicine, and other fields.



      Intercollege Transfer Process
    



      Dual Degree
    












            Admissions FAQ
          

Common queries about applying to UIC Psychology as a graduate student
Below you will find answers to many common questions about applying for graduate study in Psychology.
Not a graduate student? Check out UIC’s undergraduate admissions FAQ. For questions regarding touring campus, click here.
Can I apply for a Master’s degree in Psychology at UIC?
UIC Psychology does not offer a terminal Master’s program. Students admitted to the program and complete an MA Thesis as part of the PhD curriculum requirements.
Is there a part-time or online graduate program in Psychology?
Our PhD program is focused on research, with coursework to provide a foundation of knowledge. The curriculum is designed as a full-time, in-person program, which typically takes 5-6 years to complete.
When do students select a dissertation lab?
In our department, students are admitted directly into their graduate advisor’s lab and begin conducting research in that lab as soon they arrive.  Thus, admissions depend not only on the qualifications of a prospective student, but the fit with a lab that matches their research interests. A strong personal statement will communicate how our PhD program will build on a student’s prior training to prepare them for their longer-term goals.
What happens after I submit my application?

Review. Faculty in each research area (Behavioral Neuroscience, Clinical, Cognitive, Community Prevention & Research, Social & Personality) will review the applications to their program to select prospective students to interview. It is important for prospective students to apply to the appropriate program with faculty that match their research interests. Due to the large number of applicants for a limited number of spaces in an incoming class (~12-17 students), we cannot provide feedback on individual applications.
Interviews. We typically conduct interviews with selected prospective students in late January through mid-February. Interviews may be done remotely and/or in person. For in-person interviews, we try to bring applicants to visit in groups so they can also meet their potential cohort. Some students are nominated for fellowships at this time.
Decisions. Decisions are typically made within a few weeks of interviews. Students are admitted directly into their advisor’s lab to begin research during their first semester. The offer letter will indicate the advisor accepting the student as well as provide information about stipend level (as a research- or teaching-assistant) for the first year. Interviews and admissions may continue through March, and once made, students have until April 15 to accept or decline their offer.
Finances. Stipend levels and other benefits are determined by the contract negotiated by the UIC GEO. Our students are typically supported as a teaching- or research-assistant with a tuition waiver.
Beginning grad school. Appointments for the school year begin on August 16. Incoming first-year students have a week of mandatory orientation before classes begin in the fall.







            UIC Social & Personality PhD FAQs
          

Read the frequently asked questions for the Social & Personality PhD program here.












            Next Steps for Newly Admitted Students
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Orientation (First-Year & Transfer)
                    

                As a newly admitted student, you will be invited to a mandatory orientation where you will meet with an LAS Advisor and register for courses.
            









                            Undergraduate Course Offerings
                    

                Lean more the courses offered for students in our undergraduate degree programs.
            










            Have Questions? Contact Us!
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Edward George Sargis
                    

                Lecturer and Director of Undergraduate Studies
            












                            Michael  Meinzer
                    

                Assistant Professor, Director of Graduate Studies
            



















 



























Contact
 Department of Psychology
1007 W. Harrison St., 1009 BSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3036
Fax: (312) 413-4122
PSCH@uic.edu

 




Social Media Accounts





Facebook

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












