 















                            Department | Psychology | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Psychology

Main Menu




        Programs
      


Expand Programs menu











                  Undergraduate Studies
                




                  Graduate Studies
                









        Prospective
      




        Diversity
      


Expand Diversity menu











                  Mission Statement
                




                  Diversity Advancement Committee
                




                  Programs and Initiatives
                




                  Faculty Research
                




                  Resources
                




                  The Black Scholar Series
                









        People
      


Expand People menu











                  Faculty
                




                  By Program
                




                  Administration
                




                  Graduate Students
                




                  Research Associate
                




                  Staff
                









        Resources
      


Expand Resources menu











                  Courses
                




                  Undergraduate Resources
                




                  Faculty and Staff Resources
                




                  Human Subjects
                




                  Contact Us
                









        DEPARTMENT
      


Expand DEPARTMENT menu











                  News
                




                  Calendar
                








Eyebrow menu


las.uic.edu


+Give


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Psychology
              
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 









Department





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












WELCOME TO THE DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY
The Department of Psychology at the University of Illinois Chicago is a nationally recognized academic department for excellence in research and teaching. The central goal of the undergraduate and graduate training experience is to provide a contemporary, comprehensive and challenging exploration in understanding the complete human being. To that end, the Department of Psychology offers degrees oriented to understanding the complete human being across different levels of analysis that span:
Brain and Mind - Cognitive and affective processes
Person - Individual emotional and attitudinal patterns
Group and Community - How members relate to each other and how individual group experience is impacted by cultural and community context






            UIC Psychology at a glance
          Heading link



 
Copy link








27 
Tenure-Track Faculty







5 
Clinical Track Faculty







8 
Lecturers










            UIC Psychology at a glance
          Heading link



 
Copy link








2 
Researchers







12 
new 2022 first-year PhD Students







11 
Post-Baccalaureate Fellows










            Faculty Overview
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Our faculty are nationally and internationally recognized for their cutting-edge research.

Our interdisciplinary approach results in active collaborations with faculty in all other UIC colleges, particularly in the Colleges of Education, Engineering, and Medicine.
Psychology faculty are actively involved in or direct Inter-College Programs such as the Center for Clinical and Translational Science, Council on Teacher Education, Institute for Health and Research Policy and Graduate Program in Neuroscience.
Psychology faculty are further committed teachers and mentors leading to the largest number of teaching awards of any department in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, including Department Teaching Award of Excellence, as well as several Teaching Recognition Program, Award for Excellence in Teaching, and Silver Circle awardees. In addition, our graduate teaching assistants have received numerous teaching and mentorship awards.







            Programs of Study
          Heading link



 
Copy link




Our undergraduate Bachelor of Science degree in Psychology provides a broad and comprehensive examination of human behavior that culminates in taking advanced laboratory courses in one of several Psychology subdisciplines (Behavioral Neuroscience, Clinical, Cognitive, Cognitive Neuroscience, Community, Developmental, Learning Conditioning, Mammalian Neuroanatomy, Social Personality).
Our undergraduate Bachelor of Arts degree in Applied Psychology offers courses in psychological testing, as well as, applied courses in interviewing and interventions. The focus is on direct skill building for fieldwork in addition to theoretical knowledge. This track culminates is a fieldwork practicum in one out of over 200 intern sites in the Chicagoland area.
Psychology also contributes to a Bachelor of Science degree in Neuroscience. The curriculum is made up of principally from Psychology, Biological Sciences, and Philosophy with the degree program administered by the Laboratory of Integrative Neuroscience.
Our graduate PhD program in Psychology provides specialized training in one of four areas: Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Clinical, Community and Prevention Research, and Social and Personality. View Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data for our Clinical program.  Our graduate program also offers minors in Diversity Science and Statistical Methods and Measurement. Because faculty research is multidisciplinary, graduate training crosses traditional with exposure to multiple methods and levels of analysis. Psychology faculty also contribute to the interdisciplinary graduate programs in Learning Sciences and Neuroscience.







            Campus
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The UIC campus is located just west of the Chicago downtown area. Being located in an international city, UIC prides itself in welcoming students from every ethnic and racial group, religion, gender, sexual orientation, physical condition, and age. UIC and the Department of Psychology supports a wide variety of events, programs and support groups celebrating and furthering diversity for everyone.
Sign-Up for a campus tour here.








DEPARTMENT


Back to main content









News 


Departmental Spotlights 

Newsletter Archive 



Calendar 












 



























Contact
 Department of Psychology
1007 W. Harrison St., 1009 BSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3036
Fax: (312) 413-4122
PSCH@uic.edu

 




Social Media Accounts





Facebook

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












