 












                            Robotics Laboratory | University of Illinois Chicago
                    




















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Robotics Laboratory

Main Menu




        People
      




        Publications
      




        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Wireless Sensor Networks
                




                  Reliability of CPS
                




                  Past Projects
                









        Resources
      


Expand Resources menu











                  Academic Resources
                




                  Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Robotics Laboratory
              
College of Engineering 


















We are currently rebuilding our site. If you are a student interested in joining the Lab please contact Prof. Žefran directly.








            intro
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Welcome to the Robotics Laboratory at the University of Illinois at Chicago! Housed in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, the Robotics Lab is a research facility  specializing in the theoretical and applied research in robotics. Its mission is to provide a multidisciplinary environment for students and researchers interested in human-robot interaction, autonomy and safety-critical cyber-physical systems. Current research activities range from physical human-robot interaction to safety monitoring of autonomous cars. Established  in 1999, the Robotics Lab hosts students pursuing graduate degrees (M.S. and Ph.D.) in Electrical and Computer  Engineering or Computer Science, as well as several undergrads.
Whether you are a prospective student looking for information or a colleague interested in our research, we hope that you will find these pages useful. If you need additional information please feel free to contact us. Our lab is located in Room 4211 of Science and Engineering Laboratory West (SELW).















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 Prof. Miloš Žefran
851 S. Morgan St., 1041 SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-6495
mzefran@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












