 












                            Alumnus Michael E. Papka joins UIC computer science | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Alumnus Michael E. Papka joins UIC computer science


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on October 11, 2022








            Alumnus Michael E. Papka joins UIC computer science
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Michael E. Papka joined UIC’s computer science department as a professor this fall, where he brings years of interdisciplinary research and teaching experience to the university. He will also join the university’s Electronic Visualization Laboratory.
Papka’s research interests include high-performance computing, and large-scale data analysis and visualization. His current efforts focus on edge-computing-enabled smart cities, visualizing large datasets, and the use of new technologies to identify opportunities for scientific discovery.
Papka holds a joint appointment with Argonne National Laboratory, where he works as a senior scientist, and serves as deputy associate laboratory director for Computing, Environment, and Life Sciences and as director of the Argonne Leadership Computing Facility (ALCF). ALCF is a U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science scientific supercomputing facility used by the research community to pursue major discoveries and innovation through open science.
“UIC helped prepare me to work on real-world problems with interdisciplinary teams,” said Papka. “By returning to UIC, I hope to do the same for a new generation of scientists.”
Before joining UIC, Papka was a Presidential Research, Scholarship, and Artistry professor of computer science at Northern Illinois University (NIU), where he founded the Data, Devices, and Interaction Laboratory, a joint research lab between NIU’s School of Art and Design and Department of Computer Science.
Papka received his bachelor’s degree in physics from NIU, a master’s degree in electrical engineering and computer science from UIC, and MS and PhD degrees in computer science from the University of Chicago. In addition to his past roles at NIU, he has held various joint positions at the University of Chicago and at Illinois Tech.
Papka is a senior member of the Association for Computing Machinery and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. He sits on the advisory boards of Loyola University Chicago’s computer science program and Harvard University’s Institute for Applied Computational Science. He’s received honors including the Secretary of Energy Achievement Award (High-Performance Computing Resource Team) in 2021, Excellence in Teaching awards from NIU in 2016 and 2020, the UIC Alumni Association’s City Partner Award in 2014, and an R&D 100 Award in 2007. Most recently, Papka was recognized with the 2022 Argonne Board of Governors’ Pinnacle of Education Award for his contributions to science education outreach activities.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












