 












                            Philip S. Yu receives Test of Time Award | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Philip S. Yu receives Test of Time Award


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on October 11, 2022








            Philip S. Yu receives Test of Time award
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Distinguished and Wexler Chair Professor Philip S. Yu and his coauthors received the Very Large Data Bases Endowment Inc. (VLDB) 2022 Test of Time award, for their 2011 paper that has proven to be the most influential and important paper of that year. The paper’s citation index is 1587.
The paper, “PathSim: Meta Path-Based Top-K Similarity Search in Heterogeneous Information Networks,” was authored by Yu, Yizhou Sun, Jiawei Han, Xifeng Yan, and Tianyi Wu.
“In my opinion, Test of Time awards are extremely important awards,” said Robert Sloan, professor and computer science department head. It’s one thing to win a best paper award when you publish a paper. That means people think it’s very good work. But when you win a Test of Time award 10 or 15 years after you publish a paper, that means that people now know your paper is really good, and really influential work.”
The paper involves similarity search, a primitive operation in databases and web search engines. There are many diverse information networks, such as webpages interconnected through hyperlinks, social networks such as Facebook, and bibliographic networks. While two objects may be linked by many paths in the network, most previously existing similarity measures were designed for homogenous networks, and cannot be applied to heterogeneous networks, as different semantic meanings behind the paths were not taken into consideration.
The authors introduced the concept of meta-path-based similarity, defining a meta path as a path consisting of sequence relations defined by different object types.
“No matter whether a user would like to explicitly specify a path combination given sufficient domain knowledge, or choose the best path by experimental trials, or simply provide training examples to learn it, meta path forms a common base for a network-based similarity search engine,” the authors explained in the paper.
They designed a novel similarity measure, PathSim, that finds peer objects in the network, such as finding authors in a similar field and with similar reputations. This tool was more adept at finding meaningful connections compared with random-walk-based similarity measures, which rely on the link path between any two patterns. To support fast online queries, Yu and his coauthors developed a solution that uses short meta paths, then concentrates them to compute the top-K results, or best answers, eliminating irrelevant results.
“In short, all the world’s information networks consist of edges connecting multiple nodes, and before this paper, all the work in the area ignored differences concerning the types of the nodes and links,” Sloan said. “Analyzing computations about information propagation in a way that includes such type information leads to much better results. Today, this is simply the way the analysis is done for networks containing mixed types of nodes and edges.”















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












