 












                            Joseph E. Michaelis receives grant to develop robot for homework help | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Joseph E. Michaelis receives grant to develop robot for homework help


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on September 26, 2022








            Joseph E. Michaelis receives grant to develop robot for homework h
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Assistant Professor Joseph E. Michaelis has been awarded a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant to develop a social robot to assist students with their science homework. In an effort to mimic the social interactions in class that are conducive to learning, the robot tool, PATHWiSE, aims to improve the home learning experience for students by empowering teachers to create custom robot-assisted lessons for their students.
Teachers often help students in science classrooms by providing guidance, including offering up subtle cues to what students might notice about their learning, restating key points in what others are explaining, or asking students questions to explain their reasoning.
Educational technologies typically provide some lesson support, but most systems fail to provide personal connections and guidance like what students find in the classroom. While some social robotic learning tools exist, they do not allow teachers to customize their lesson plans. Teachers will be able to create embedded comments for the robots to say to students while learning at home that can be tailored to the specific learning needs of that student.
“We see PATHWiSE as a way for teachers to further connect with their students while they work outside of the classroom. By creating lessons with a social robot, teachers can infuse their humor and personal style into homework to transform homework questions into conversations,” Michaelis said. “This work goes beyond adaptive learning – it helps learning feel personal.”
Michaelis and other researchers will work with middle school science teachers and students in the design of the robot, and a teacher authoring tool, PATHWiSE, the Personalized Augmentation Tool for HomeWork in Science Education. PATHWISE overlays trigger-action pairs directly onto multimedia homework activities controlled by the teacher, who will indicate where in the homework to provide guidance.
The research will culminate in a four-week study where teachers will create augmented homework assignments for their science classes, and their students will complete these assignments at home with either the robot or a similar computer-based system.
Michaelis divides his time between the computer science department, and the Learning Science Institute, and the grant is for interdisciplinary work between the two entities. The $350,000 grant, Collaborative Research: HCC: Small: PATHWiSE – Supporting Teacher Authoring of Robot-Assisted Homework, is Michaelis’ first NSF grant. It is part of an overall effort with Bilge Mutlu, a professor at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, with overall funding of $600,000.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












