 












                            CS welcomes Professor Andruid Kerne | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











CS welcomes Professor Andruid Kerne


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on August 30, 2022








            CS welcomes Professor Andruid Kerne
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Professor Andruid Kerne has joined UIC Computer Science from the National Science Foundation and Texas A&M University. Working at the intersection of human-centered computing and creative endeavors, Kerne treats computing as a means of expression. This fall, he is teaching CS 522, Human-Computer Interaction.
Before joining UIC, he spent two decades at Texas A&M, where he served as professor of computer science and engineering and director of the Interface Ecology Lab, a research group he established in 2002. The lab “investigates the future of human expression, focusing on creativity, play, participation, teaching and learning, and inclusion.”
Using design, sensory interface systems, AI, and algorithms, Kerne and his team develop tools, games, social networks, collections, installations, and performances that incorporate computation. He is drawn to blending fields, humans, and technologies. The Interface Ecology Lab has developed a series of tools for people to collect and assemble web information by combining visual, multimedia, and traditional textual forms: LiveMache, IdeaMache, InfoComposer, combinFormation, and CollageMachine. These tools have been used on creative assignments by over 9,000 students in 13 departments at six universities.
Kerne has long straddled both the creative and computational worlds. His background includes varied endeavors, from working as a senior software engineer in computer vision for NASA on the Mars Pathfinder project, to spending a year in West Africa, studying traditional dancing and drumming, and working with Ghanaian artists on a piece for the Pan African Theater Festival.
Kerne holds a bachelor’s degree in applied mathematics and electronic media from Harvard University, a master’s degree in music composition from Wesleyan University, and a PhD in computer science from New York University.
“I used to do this bimodal thing, where I would make money programming, with little power about for who and what, then do more meaningful work, for free. When I began my PhD studies, I wanted to find a more integrated approach, combining the two,” Kerne said. “Working as researcher and educator in human-computer interaction enables me to address that directly.”
While in his last years at Texas A&M, Kerne served as program director for the National Science Foundation, where he co-directed research funding programs in human-centered computing, technologies for teaching and learning, the future of work, and ethical research.
“Computing has always been a part of my life,” Kerne said. “Computing is not necessarily beneficial to humanity, but I want to believe that it can be. I made a commitment to myself that my involvement with computing will further that.”
Kerne was drawn to UIC for its urban setting, emphasis on diversity and inclusion, and opportunities to work with Chicago’s organizations to innovate ways that computing can serve the local community. At Texas A&M, Kerne began work on diversity and inclusion after teaching a capstone course that included project work that frustrated some of his female and minority students. In response, to improve the learning environment, he initiated participatory workshops called Teamwork: Gender + Race.
“I’m looking to support, teach, and advise a wide range of students, in diverse aspects of computing,” Kerne said. “I work with students to integrate discoveries of new knowledge with good impacts for people and humanity.”




Modified on August 30, 2022













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












