 












                            Expert in analyzing, understanding complex systems joins faculty | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Expert in analyzing, understanding complex systems joins faculty


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on August 24, 2022








            Expert in analyzing, understanding complex systems joins faculty
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Sourav Medya joins the computer science department as an assistant professor this fall. Medya’s research focuses on problems at the intersection of graphs, machine learning, and data science.
Graphs or networks are tools that capture the strength of relationships between entities and can model many complex systems such as traffic, social networks, and the web. Medya designs machine learning-based algorithms that help to analyze, understand, and optimize large-scale networked systems.
Medya is not new to the Chicago area, calling Northwestern University home for the past three years, first as a postdoctoral researcher hosted by Professor Brian Uzzi, then as a research assistant professor at the Kellogg School of Management and the Northwestern Institute on Complex Systems (NICO).
“I was at NICO working with a team including physicists, mathematicians, lawyers, and social scientists,” Medya said. “We worked to solve problems which mainly arise in interdisciplinary areas; we would think of ways we could apply machine learning and AI to enhance our understanding of real social systems and make them more efficient and fairer.”
He earned his PhD in computer science at the University of California at Santa Barbara, advised by Ambuj Singh. Before that, he received his bachelor’s of technology degree from the West Bengal University of Technology in Kolkata, India, and his master’s degree in computer science from the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore, India.
Medya is excited to join UIC, noting its warm, friendly environment, and the opportunity to collaborate with colleagues who are experts on a broad range of topics. He also appreciates that he will be at a large, public university with a diverse student body.
“There are many teachers and mentors who have contributed to my life,” Medya said. “I’m really excited about mentoring as well as teaching and I like to have a similar impact on my students.”
Medya will teach CS 418, Introduction to Data Science, this fall. In spring, he will teach CS 594, a Special Topics course on machine learning for graphs.
 















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












