 












                            New professor to focus on ethics of emerging technology | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











New professor to focus on ethics of emerging technology


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on August 17, 2022








            New professor to focus on ethics of emerging technology
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Lu Cheng wants her students to realize the social implications of their work as computer science students, and as they develop software and computer systems. Cheng, who joins the department this fall as an assistant professor, conducts research on data mining and machine learning, with a particular focus on socially responsible artificial intelligence (AI), social computing, causal machine learning, and AI for social good.
“I look at how to design AI systems that can responsibly serve users and develop applications that have a social impact,” Cheng said. “I believe the next generation of AI should work with, not for, humans.”
She hopes to bridge the gap between conceptual AI principles and responsible AI practices. Cheng focuses on three human-centered actions: protecting users from harm and negative consequences; informing users on detecting misinformation; and preventing societal harm from AI algorithms. She has developed advanced machine-learning algorithms to address several of these issues, including bias mitigation, cyberbullying, fake news detection, and disaster relief.
Cheng enjoys teaching and finds it rewarding to see her students grow and learn. She looks forward to working with faculty from various backgrounds and disciplines at UIC.
Cheng received her PhD in computer science at Arizona State University, where she was advised by Huan Liu. Cheng said she is his twelfth student to pursue a career in academia. She received her bachelor of science from Huazhong University of Science and Technology, and her master’s degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in New York. Both her bachelor’s and master’s degrees are in industrial engineering, but she was drawn to switch to computer science, which she considers an exciting major and promising field.
Cheng will teach CS 594, a seminar course on socially responsible AI.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












