 












                            NSF grants $10M for collaborative data science institute in Chicago | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











NSF grants $10M for collaborative data science institute in Chicago


Brian Flood
|
Posted on August 02, 2022








            NSF grants $10M for collaborative data science institute in Chicago
          Heading link



 
Copy link




A multidisciplinary team representing five Chicago-area university research centers will unite as part of a new data science institute backed by a five-year, $10 million grant from the National Science Foundation.
The grant merges two existing collaborative institutes, the Foundations of Data Science and the Institute for Data, Econometrics, Algorithms and Learning, to form a new research group that uses the IDEAL name. It is being funded through phase two of the NSF Harnessing the Data Revolution initiative and follows a competitive proposal process involving institutes funded during phase one.

Leading the effort is the University of Illinois Chicago in partnership with the Illinois Institute of Technology, Northwestern University, Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago and the University of Chicago. The institute will have 55 faculty members from the five institutions, in addition to nine researchers from Google.

IDEAL will support work focused on three themes: foundations of machine learning, high-dimensional data analysis and inference, and data science and society. Computer science, electrical engineering, probability and statistics are among the core disciplines represented in the project.
“A unique aspect of our institute is that we will bring in other areas not traditionally represented in data science, including mathematical logic, economics and law,” said Lev Reyzin, a principal investigator and UIC professor of mathematics, statistics and computer science. “One of the goals of this institute is to create a cohesive data science community within the Chicago area.”
The research programs under IDEAL will address issues from deep learning and optimization and networks and statistical inference to networks and statistical inference and privacy and fairness.
IDEAL also aims to broaden participation in data science, help develop future workforce members and connect with the local community through lectures at high schools, exhibits at the Museum of Science and Industry and teacher workshops.
UIC students will benefit from the project through access to research assistantships, postdoctoral fellowships, cross-institutional courses, workshops and seminars.
“They will get to interact with institute visitors. We will also develop new courses that they can take at UIC,” Reyzin said.
The institute’s inaugural director will be Avrim Blum from ToyotaTechnological Institute, followed by Aravindan Vijayaraghavan of Northwestern, and then Reyzin of UIC.
Co-principal investigators from UIC include Natasha Devroye, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering; Will Perkins, assistant professor of mathematics, statistics and computer science; Yichao Wu, the TransUnion Professor based in the department of mathematics, statistics and computer science; and Elena Zheleva, UIC assistant professor of computer science.

This story first appeared on UIC Today August 1, 2022.




Modified on August 02, 2022













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












