 












                            Intern spends summer protecting health care applications | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Intern spends summer protecting health care applications


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on July 26, 2022








            Intern spends summer protecting health care applications
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Jim Young
        


Leland Moy spent his summer interning with Health Care Service Corporation (HCSC), an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. He worked as part of the applications security team on coding, development, and incorporating Spring Boot, a general framework used by many companies, into HCSC’s applications.
This was Moy’s first internship, and he says the experience has been great.
“The company has a very laid back, open culture. Everyone is friendly and I’ve been able to connect with people pretty easily,” Moy said. “HCSC stands with their members, including their employees–they want to help new grads and interns to grow their careers.”
HCSC is headquartered in downtown Chicago, and Moy appreciates the company’s wonderful view of Grant Park. During his internship, he attended a party at the company’s data center in Waukegan where he learned more about how servers work and are managed. Moy also had a fruitful talk with Marvin Richardson, HCSC’s senior vice president and CIO, on ways to better source talent for the company.
A Chicago native, Moy moved to Shanghai in grade school, and later returned to the city. Moy chose UIC as he wanted to attend college here, favoring the skyscrapers and vibrant downtown. He commutes to UIC from his family’s home. Originally an undecided student in the college of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Moy transferred to the computer science department in 2020, and expects to graduate in Fall of 2023.
He served as a teaching assistant for CS 141, Program Design II under Clinical Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies Joe Hummel, and for CS 342, Software Design, under Lecturer Mark Hallenbeck.
Moy says he’s found his UIC community, and learned a lot managing the UIC CS Trackers Discord channel. While the channel is not officially associated with the university, it has nearly 1,500 subscribers. Community monitors push out notifications about the department’s undergraduate courses, including when homework assignments drop, and allows students to chat and obtain help with course materials.
“I was struggling at the beginning of the computer science program; I transferred in and everything went online due to COVID 19,” Moy said. “The discord server allowed me to connect with peers and make close friends.”
Moy hopes to grow his entrepreneurial skills and develop some product ideas, and said he has next summer to pursue another internship opportunity.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












