 












                            Using natural language processing to improve mental health support | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Using natural language processing to improve mental health support


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on May 04, 2022








            Using natural language processing to improve mental health support
          Heading link



 
Copy link



May is Mental Health Awareness Month, and UIC Engineering research aims to help mental health professionals identify those who are most vulnerable with better support and screening tools.
Those who suffer from psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder face a higher risk of suicide. These individuals also experience increased suicidal ideation, a higher likelihood of progression to a suicide attempt, and more severe suicide attempts compared with the general population. Despite this, those in the field say more research needs to be done to prevent suicide in this group.
Assistant Professor Natalie Parde is developing ways to automatically detect linguistic and verbal features of psychotic disorders, with the goal of improving automated mental health support and screening. In the long term, her team hopes that this work could be leveraged to reduce downstream escalation (e.g., through lower rates of suicide) for people with these disorders.
Clinical psychologists at the University of California – San Diego, the University of Texas – Dallas, and the University of Miami are collecting data via speech recordings with individuals with mental health issues. Over 300 samples from consensual patient-doctor recordings have been shared to date with Parde, with additional data coming.
Using advanced methods of natural language processing – a branch of artificial intelligence that focuses on the automated interpretation and generation of human language  – Parde then analyzes the samples of natural language data.
“We are transcribing these speech recordings to enable easier natural language processing, and then extracting specialized features from these transcripts, encoding different and potentially valuable characteristics of the spoken language,” Parde said.
Preliminary data indicates that there is a link, over time, in how cognitive biases may be relevant to suicidal thinking and behavior in people with psychotic disorders. These biases include the ways patients perceive others, such as the risk of threat from others, or the value of relationships.
The data is fed into machine learning algorithms with the end goal of automatically detecting mental health issues from the language and phrasing used to help mental health providers detect suicide ideation in these patients.
The four-year study involves recordings of those with psychotic disorders, as well as a control group of patients. This allows the researchers to empirically analyze the language differences between members of those groups. Parde said a barrier to this type of work is the difficulty in obtaining data sets for these tasks.
“We plan to make our data and results publicly available so others can build upon this work and develop models of their own,” Parde said.
Parde is co-director of the UIC Natural Language Processing Laboratory and primarily researches natural language processing, with an emphasis on healthcare applications.
Her $117K grant is part of a $2.34M National Institutes of Health project under Colin A. Depp at the University of California – San Diego, Social Cognition and Suicide in Psychotic Disorders.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












