 












                            Faculty book shows possibilities of using AI in CS education | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Faculty book shows possibilities of using AI in CS education


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on March 11, 2022








            Faculty book shows possibilities of using AI in CS education
          Heading link



 
Copy link






A new book authored by Professor Barbara Di Eugenio and two of her former PhD students aims to improve introductory college computer science courses.
Intelligent Support for Computer Science Education: Pedagogy Enhanced by Artificial Intelligence, published in the fall by CRC Press, provides an introduction to the computer education landscape at all levels of education.
It also provides an analysis of one-on-one human tutoring dialogues in introductory college computer science courses and presents a tutoring software system that the authors developed and evaluated at UIC.
The software system, ChiQat-Tutor, provides intelligent support to students and plays the role of a human tutor, available 24/7. Di Eugenio and her former students Davide Fossati and Nick Green built the system using research the students had conducted for their respective theses. They collaborated with Stellan Ohlsson, a professor of psychology and adjunct professor of computer science at UIC, to develop their framework, using his approach and theories on how people learn.
Their software tool evaluates where a student is in a particular  problem and determines if they are likely to get to a solution or not—similar to how a  human tutor might approach the situation. If the student is making progress and is on the right track, help will not be provided, but if a student is at an impasse, the program will provide feedback—differentiated by whether the student has no chance of finding the solution or if they are on a promising path to the solution.
“We didn’t want to solve it for them, but to give them a hint,” Di Eugenio said.
The software system was developed and evaluated through classroom use by several UIC faculty members: Associate Professor John Lillis, Clinical Professor Dale Reed, and Clinical Associate Professor Patrick Troy. The program was tested in four classes: Program Design II (CS141), Mathematical Foundations of Computing (CS 151), Data Structures and Discrete Mathematics (CS 201), and Programming Practicum (CS 211).
“Using artificial intelligence to teach introductory computer science courses can improve computer science education,” Di Eugenio said.
ChiQat-Tutor is portable and can be adapted to individual courses. While further development of ChiQat-Tutor is not currently being pursued, an open-source, static version is available and can be modified and enhanced by would-be adopters.
“I’m very proud that my coauthors are my former PhD students. It was a pleasure to work with them, and to take their two separate theses and bring them together in a coherent whole,” Di Eugenio said.
The book took five years to complete and get published. In that time, Fossati moved on to Emory University, where he is a senior lecturer of computer science. Green is now an engineer at Facebook. Di Eugenio also credits three of her former PhD students who worked on the book—Mehrdad Alizadeh, Lin Chen, and Rachel Harsley—as well as a former postdoctoral researcher, Omar AlZoubi, and Christopher Brown of the US Naval Academy.
The book is available for purchase from the publisher, and various sources online.




Modified on March 14, 2022













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












