 












                            Aravinda Prasad Sistla named ACM Fellow | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Aravinda Prasad Sistla named ACM Fellow


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on January 20, 2022








            Aravinda Prasad Sistla named ACM Fellow
          Heading link



 
Copy link




Professor Aravinda P Sistla was recently recognized by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) for his contributions to the field of computer science. On January 19, he was named a 2021 ACM Fellow, an honor bestowed on the top 1 percent of ACM members, for his work in the areas of verifying concurrent programs, probabilistic systems, security, and database systems.
His research underpins the systems used by tech giants Microsoft and Intel for checking the accuracy of software and hardware systems. His advances in the field of security thwarts unauthorized access of computer systems. And he was also an early pioneer in the field of moving objects databases, the technology that allows users to search for nearby coffeeshops with their cellphones, for example.
Concurrent programs, or concurrent operations, allow computers to work quickly and efficiently. Computers can process multiple functions simultaneously, whether accessing data from a website or monitoring mouse clicks. But the software that can run on what’s known as multiple threads can open the door for bugs to creep in.
While having to reboot a personal laptop when a bug sneaks in is annoying, it’s not a catastrophe. But errors in safety critical systems, such as avionics and nuclear reactor controls, can have catastrophic effects. For example, software bugs in Boeing 737 Max planes led to crashes of two flights, resulting in hundreds of deaths.
“To detect possible bugs in the concurrent software, I was involved in developing a revolutionary new approach called model checking, which is a completely automated approach,” Sistla said. “Major technology companies such as Microsoft and Intel developed tools based on these ideas for debugging and developing correct software and hardware systems.”
Sistla also developed techniques for detecting security flaws in the form of authorization failures in computer systems that may allow unauthorized users to gain access to critical resources and information, such as credit card numbers. Some of his work transforms existing software to prevent attacks from happening in the first place.
Sistla recently began working on checking privacy claims of privacy-preserving mechanisms, known as differential privacy, that employ probabilistic methods that inject randomization, or noise, into data so that users can gain useful information from the private data without knowing it’s exact values.
His work on moving object data bases began in the 1990s, a few years after he joined UIC, and was conducted with fellow UIC Professor Ouri Wolfson. Through their work, they were able to pose and answer various queries that would tell them if a person had passed through a particular area. That work is the basis of today’s location-based services on smartphones and computers.
Sistla continues to his work on verifying software to root out errors, to improve security and make computer systems safer.
“Computers and software systems are used in all of modern society,” he said. “Transportation, the medical fields, energy — errors in these areas have serious implications.”





Modified on January 20, 2022













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












