 












                            Biomedical engineering student Mary Ashely Tenedor finds a minor in data science a perfect fit | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Biomedical engineering student Mary Ashely Tenedor finds a minor in data science a perfect fit


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on January 19, 2022








            Biomedical engineering student Mary Ashely Tenedor finds a minor in data science a perfect fit
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Jim Young
        

          Mary Ashley Tenedor, center
        


Mary Ashley Tenedor, a biomedical engineering junior, is interested in a career in genome editing or protein modeling. These fields are well-suited for engineers like Tenedor who are equally as comfortable working in a lab as they are sitting in front of a computer, and for engineers who can crunch vast amounts of data.
That’s why Tenedor is supplementing their degree with a data science minor—an option that recently became available to UIC students with the development of a new data science major. The major draws on many of UIC’s colleges, including engineering, liberal arts and sciences, business, applied health sciences, and urban planning and public affairs.
Data science wasn’t on Tenedor’s mind when they first arrived at UIC and took Programming for Engineers with MatLab (CS109). “I really enjoyed it; I was able to create something and test it multiple times, which I don’t get to do in other engineering programs,” Tenedor said. “Feedback is immediate in computer science.”
Tenedor worked as a teaching assistant for a computer science course but said they missed writing code and working on new projects during that time. Unsure if a data science minor was the right fit, they then took Programming Design II (CS141).
“I used it as a test to see if I could handle a data science minor, on top of my major. I learned about data structures and got really excited,” Tenedor said. “It was a fun class and something I wanted to pursue.”
In the spring, Tenedor took part in a Sprinternship, a condensed, immersive paid internship, through UIC’s Break Through Tech program, which aims to increase diversity in technology.
They were placed at pharmaceutical giant Abbvie and worked to find new ways to implement automation in the company’s IT department.
Last summer, Tenedor had an internship with Fresenius Kabi, a medical device company. They worked as a systems engineer and were pleased to understand the software behind the devices they were working with.
“I had an issue with a device, and I was able to go into the code and see how the field error was impacting how the machine was running,” they said.
This semester, Tenedor is taking Data Structures (CS 251), in addition to their biomedical engineering courses, and hopes to take Creative Coding (CS427) soon.
“I will be able to code my own 3D models,” Tenedor said. “I know this will play a role in my future.”















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












