 












                            Workshop allows students to explore data science | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Workshop allows students to explore data science


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on January 06, 2022








            Workshop allows students to explore data science
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Jim Young
        


The field of data science – where scientists develop methods to comb through huge repositories of data to unearth the meaningful information that can help businesses, governments, and nonprofits chart the best course – is growing exponentially.
In response to this, the College of Engineering recently introduced a data science major for undergraduate students.
In November, the computer science department hosted a workshop to introduce students to research in the field of data science. UIC students from all majors were encouraged to apply, including those who haven’t taken any computer science courses. Sixty students were selected out of 120 who applied.
“I think a big part of the appeal is that the data science major is new,” said Gonzalo Bello, a clinical assistant professor of computer science who ran the workshop with the help of 10 teaching assistants. “Students have heard about it, and know that the field is popular and there are a lot of jobs, so learning more about that was something they appreciated.”
The program, “exploreCSR: Exploring Data Science Research,” was funded by a grant from Google, which aims to encourage students from historically underrepresented groups to pursue graduate studies and careers in research in the field of computer science.
The morning session included an introduction to data science and information about UIC’s data science major. Students also heard from faculty members who explained the use of data science in their work in medicine and health, urban policy, and wildlife identification and management.
“The students were very interested in those talks. They asked a lot of questions about their particular research and how to get involved,” Bello said. Several of the attendees, especially those who were first-year computer science majors, are considering a switch to the data science major, he added.
In the afternoon session, students were split into groups of six and worked on a hands-on mini project where they explored, visualized, and built models using real-world data from the city of Chicago.
At UIC, there are several ways to get involved in research: the College’s Guaranteed Paid Internship Program for freshman students, the University’s Early Research Scholars Program, and through informal means—by reaching out directly to a professor and asking about joining their lab.
The department has two exploreCSR workshops planned for the spring semester; another focused on data science, and one on machine learning. Students interested in attending either session should look for emails inviting them to apply.




Modified on January 06, 2022













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












