 












                            Natalie Parde receives grant to improve early childhood interventions | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Natalie Parde receives grant to improve early childhood interventions


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on October 20, 2021








            Natalie Parde receives grant to improve early childhood interventions
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Assistant Professor Natalie Parde and Mary Khetani, an associate professor of occupational therapy at UIC, received a National Science Foundation grant worth nearly $1.2 million to improve the quality of early intervention rehabilitation services for infants and toddlers from racially and ethnically diverse and socially disadvantaged families.
The project is an interdisciplinary collaboration between computer science, through artificial intelligence and natural language processing, and rehabilitation science.
Infants and toddlers with developmental delays or disabilities need access to rehabilitation services early in their lives, but not all families have equal access to excellent care. One way to improve the quality of early intervention is to use family-centered care, an approach that includes the child’s family in decisions about the design of the services their child receives.
Parde and Khetani will develop a better assessment tool that will help intervention designers to include the most relevant content for each child and to personalize the experience for families for all backgrounds. The project seeks to increase families’ involvement and comfort level in multiple ways: by allowing them to voice concerns about racial climate, by collecting information that families already use and prefer, and by allowing them to use a conversational agent to navigate the assessment tool.  Parde and Khetani hope that their tool will offer families a customized, culturally relevant electronic option for family-centered care when children are going through very early interventions.
Parde, who is a member of the Natural Language Processing Laboratory,  has been focused on developing innovative natural language processing solutions for healthcare applications, but typically for adults, especially older adult populations. Adding a new target audience—children—is exciting, she said.
“This has been a dream collaboration so far,” Parde said. “I love working on projects with tangible real-world impact, and this project supplies that in spades!”
Parde said the technologies she and Khetani develop will have broader applications, not only for healthcare but also in more general settings.
This is Parde’s first NSF grant.




Modified on October 20, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












