 












                            UIC engineering students create resource for the undocumented community | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











UIC engineering students create resource for the undocumented community


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on October 18, 2021








            UIC engineering students create resource for the undocumented community
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Navigating the web of resources available to high schoolers considering college can be difficult: from financial and academic support to other types of aid. For undocumented students, the challenges can seem insurmountable. It’s estimated that each year, only 5-10% of the 65,000 undocumented students who graduate from U.S. high schools attend college, in part due to these hurdles.
A group of undergraduate engineering students, who are part of the National Science Foundation Scholarship STEM program, set out to address this issue, one that affects the community surrounding UIC. The group includes four computer science students: Kaylynn Arrington, Jessica Borowy, Tosan Egbesemirone, and Andrea Herrera; and Josh Bustos, an industrial engineering major.
“We identified the problem and used our engineering knowledge to address it,” said Egbesemirone. “We became the first student-led initiative in the nation to build together an online resource for the undocumented community.”
The group created a website, UndocWiki, to serve as a hub for all Illinois resources available to undocumented students and their families. When the COVID-19 pandemic struck, the group realized the need for this information was even greater. The site launched in April, 2021, and lists everything from scholarships to mental health resources, student aid, legal aid, community centers, and more. Within the first three days that the site was live, it had 2,000 page views, and has had 200 unique visitors per month. Through Google translate, the site can be accessible in a student’s first language.
UIC’s Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement provides funding for the site. Tanya Cabrera, UIC’s assistant vice provost for student inclusion, and Amalia Pallares, vice chancellor for diversity, equity and engagement work with the Undocwiki team, and the Latin American Recruitment and Educational Services Program, known as LARES, also helps the group with the site.
“We are so proud of the work by this team of scholars, and thankful our department can support them. In pre-COVID 19 conversations, we began to explore a one-stop shop for resources for and by undocumented students, alongside fellow ally peers,” Cabrera said. This initiative sparked several partnerships internally and statewide, to support a virtual platform for the state of Illinois after the passing of HB3438, Undocumented Student Liaison and Undocumented Resource Center, which was signed into law in August.”
While news of most scholarships available to undocumented students were once communicated via word of mouth, these resources are now listed for students to view.
UIC’s Fearless Undocumented Alliance, which supports undocumented students at the university, hosted a fair for incoming college students and all of the two dozen students surveyed found the UndocWiki website extremely useful and would share it with family and friends.
Cabrera helped UndocWiki connect with many community leaders and organizations to spread word about the website. The group is hoping to work with the Chicago Teachers Union and high school counselors in the Chicago Public Schools.
“It really takes a village. We know people feel safe when they get information via word of mouth,” Egbesemirone said.




Modified on October 19, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












