 












                            New cloud market design will better align supply, demand | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











New cloud market design will better align supply, demand


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on September 01, 2021








            New cloud market design will better align supply, demand
          Heading link



 
Copy link






When you back up an image from your phone or collaborate on a work document that’s stored in the cloud, you probably don’t think much about where that information goes. The seemingly invisible storage we rely on daily is housed offsite at data centers run by cloud computing providers. The cloud computing market is large and growing: it’s worth billions of dollars, and it uses about 1 percent of the entire world’s electricity.
Ian Kash, an associate professor in the computer science department, is researching ways to improve the cloud market. He’s gathering information on supply and demand, and he’s analyzing new market designs that will optimize the market by aggregating customer information that can help predict future needs.
Kash explained that most cloud computing resources are priced and billed using simple metrics, similar to those of a utility provider. The customer uses as much of the resources as they want and is billed accordingly.
“From the operator perspective, this creates a bunch of very hard challenges,” Kash said.
The result, he explained, is a reactive approach: Cloud providers either invest in excess capacity to cover spikes in demand, or they don’t invest enough and have to turn customers away. Let’s say a customer requests a virtual server: how will the provider know whether that server will be up for two weeks or two years? How can you anticipate the demands of a business that might go viral and need more of every service the provider offers?
“The cloud provider has no idea what the future plans are when a company asks them for their resources and has no idea how to optimize,” Kash said.
He hopes to develop new algorithms and market designs that enable fairer and more efficient solutions for allocating resources. The focus of the work is cloud computing, but Kash sees parallels in other contexts, such as helping electricity markets to adapt to allocating renewable energy sources, which can be variable in supply.
This research is funded by a nearly $500,000 National Science Foundation grant, “AF: Small: Algorithmic and Market Design Challenges in Cloud Computing,” that runs through June 2024.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












