 












                            CS department adds a new human-computer interaction researcher | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











CS department adds a new human-computer interaction researcher


David Brazy
|
Posted on August 27, 2021








            CS department adds a new human-computer interaction researcher
          Heading link



 
Copy link






The tools of the digital revolution have transformed how we learn, but for these tools to be the most effective, we need to understand how humans interact with them.
Enter Nikita Soni, an expert in human-computer interaction. Her research focuses on understanding, designing, and evaluating intelligent user-interface technologies for learning and creativity, especially for children and families.
“I understand children’s and adults’ mental models and natural interaction behaviors with novel and existing technologies,” she said. She uses this understanding to create applications that enable learning and creativity.
Soni will join the computer science department in January 2022 as an assistant professor.
She is now a PhD candidate at the University of Florida, where she is conducting thesis research on designing natural user interactions for multi-touch spherical displays that support collaboration and learning. She worked with Adobe Research as an intern, to investigate how to design natural user interactions for creativity support tools.
Soni holds a master’s degree in computer science from the University of Florida and a bachelor’s degree in electronics and communications from Jaypee University of Engineering and Technology in India. She has been an intern at Amazon and has worked at the Bhabha Atomic Research Center in India.
She already is thinking about her teaching and research career at UIC.
“I’m looking forward to developing and teaching courses related to interaction design and human-computer interaction at UIC,” she said. She envisions courses “where students will get a chance to work with local industry clients to create interactive prototypes of design ideas based on their client’s requirements.”
“I am very excited about the opportunity of joining UIC’s esteemed faculty,” she added, “and I am looking forward to continuing to innovate and design technology in ways that make a positive impact on our community.”




Modified on August 30, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












