 












                            CAREER grant opens path for causal inference in AI | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











CAREER grant opens path for causal inference in AI


David Brazy
|
Posted on August 23, 2021








            Text block one
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Jim Young
        


Computers and artificial intelligence programs now play a significant role in helping people to make decisions— for themselves and for society—and immense amounts of data are essential to that process.
Digital systems still struggle to extract causal patterns from these big data networks, however. Elena Zheleva, an assistant professor of computer science at UIC, hopes that her recent $600,000 National Science Foundation CAREER grant on relational causal inference can help to improve the connections between data sources and decision-supporting programs.
Causal reasoning with big data requires accounting for the bias, noise, heterogeneity, and complex relationships inherent to such massive amounts of information, Zheleva explained. Her project will address this need by bringing together and building on recent advances in machine learning and causal inference for relational data, such as information gathered from social networks.
“Modern technologies, powered by big data and AI, are influencing our decisions daily, from what to read, to whom to date, whether to invite a job applicant for an interview, and what drug to develop next,” Zheleva said. “However pervasive, these technologies rarely reason about cause and effect and the consequences of their own behavior.”
Unless researchers can incorporate causal inference into computation, she warned, we may be unable to realize the full potential of big data, and we will be unlikely to create data-centric technologies that are fair, unbiased, and responsible.
Causal analysis is common in the social and life sciences and in empirical policy and marketing research, Zheleva said. Many of these disciplines are looking to adjust their analyses in the era of big data.
She noted this research is a step toward creating machines that can reason not only based on correlations in data but can also support and make decisions based on analysis of potential consequences, a staple of causal inference. To do this, the machines need to be able to use counterfactual reasoning, which is thinking about what would have happened if the technology took a different course of action than the one it actually took. Zheleva gave several examples of how this could work, such as if a program implemented a different recommender system, showed a different ad, or sent different app reminders.
“Such expansion in capabilities would fundamentally change how we build future AI technologies and how we extract knowledge from big data,” she said.
Zheleva said she was both excited and humbled when she heard the news that she received the CAREER award, the NSF’s top grant for early-career researchers. The funding will help her and her colleagues to understand factors that contribute to the spread of misinformation on social media, youth smoking, and repeat emergency room visits. She will work with Robin Mermelstein from the Department of Psychology on youth vaping, Andrew Rojecki from the Department of Communication on misinformation, and Plamen Petrov from Anthem on ER visits.




Modified on October 12, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












