 












                            Open Positions | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Computer Science


Faculty and Staff


Open Positions






Open Positions






            Call for applications for tenure-track faculty at all levels
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Tenure-track faculty
                    








            job information
          

Tenure-Track Faculty openings in computer science
Located in the heart of Chicago, the UIC CS department anticipates hiring multiple tenure track faculty at all ranks starting from Fall 2023 (with preference to candidates at the assistant professor and associate professor ranks). Candidates working in computer systems and networks, languages and compilers, software engineering, computer graphics, computer security, cryptography, databases, and related areas are especially encouraged to apply. Outstanding candidates in all areas who could complement and enhance current department strengths will be considered.  Candidates should have a PhD in computer science, computer engineering, or closely related fields, and the potential for excellence in teaching and research.
Applications must be submitted to the University online  and must include a one-page cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching, research and diversity statements, and names and addresses of at least three references. Links to a professional website such as Google Scholar or Research Gate are recommended. Applicants may contact the faculty search committee at cs-tt-search@uic.edu for more information.
For fullest consideration, applications must be submitted by November 30, 2022. Applications will be accepted until the positions are filled.
The Department of Computer Science at UIC, which is expected to hire between 15 and 25 new faculty in the next five years, has 42 tenure-system faculty, five research faculty with strong and broad research agendas, and 17 clinical/teaching faculty. The department is committed to building a diverse faculty preeminent in its missions of research, teaching, and service to the community. Candidates who have experience engaging with a diverse range of faculty, staff, and students, and contributing to a climate of inclusivity are encouraged to discuss their perspectives on these subjects in their application materials.
Construction of a new building housing the UIC Computer Science department is under way; the building is expected to open in the 2023-24 academic school year.  The building will include 80 faculty offices, 16,000 square feet of classroom space, 23 shared student offices, many collaborative learning and teaching spaces, and a geothermal farm to assist with sustainable heating and cooling.
UIC is a major public research university (Carnegie R1) with about 3,100 faculty and 34,000 students. UIC is committed to increasing access to education, employment, programs, and services for all. UIC is committed to supporting the success of dual-career couples.
Chicago epitomizes the modern, livable, vibrant, and diverse city. World-class amenities including the lakefront, arts and culture venues, festivals, and two international airports make Chicago a singularly enjoyable place to live.  Yet the cost of living, whether in an 88th floor condominium downtown or on a tree-lined street in one of the nation’s finest school districts, is remarkably affordable.
Duties: Teach, conduct research, mentor students
Qualifications: PhD in computer science, computer engineering or closely related field, and the potential for excellence in teaching and research.
The University of Illinois at Chicago is an affirmative action, equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, national origin, protected veteran status, or status as an individual with a disability.
Offers of employment by the University of Illinois may be subject to approval by the University’s Board of Trustees and are made contingent upon the candidate’s successful completion of any criminal background checks and other pre-employment assessments that may be required for the position being offered. Additional information regarding such pre-employment checks and assessments may be provided as applicable during the hiring process.
The University of Illinois System requires candidates selected for hire to disclose any documented finding of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment and to authorize inquiries to current and former employers regarding findings of sexual misconduct or sexual harassment. For more information, visit the UIC system human resources page.







                            Teaching-track faculty
                    








            job information
          

Teaching Track Faculty Openings in Computer Science
The Computer Science Department at the University of Illinois Chicago (UIC) seeks to hire full-time teaching faculty (Lecturer or Clinical Professor).  Candidates would work alongside 17 full-time teaching faculty with over 150 years of experience and 13 awards for excellence. Standard teaching load is three course sections per semester.
UIC is one of the top-ten most diverse universities in the US (US News and World Report), a top 25 public and top 10 best value (Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education), and a Hispanic-serving institution. The department seeks candidates interested in all areas of computer science. Submit applications online at https://jobs.uic.edu. Include:
–  A curriculum vitae,
–  Contact information for at least three references,
–  One-page statement on your teaching philosophy and how it is inclusive to a diverse student population,
–  Recordings of teaching activities (optional), and
–  recent teaching evaluations (optional).
For more information, send e-mail to cs-ntt-search@uic.edu. For fullest consideration, apply by 11/17/22. Applications will be accepted and reviewed until the positions are filled.
Qualifications:
The Lecturer track is a long-term career track that starts with Lecturer and offers opportunities for advancement to Senior Lecturer. Minimum qualifications include an MS in Computer Science or a closely related field.
The Clinical Professor track is a long-term career track that starts with Clinical Assistant Professor and offers advancement to Clinical Associate and Clinical Full Professor. Minimum qualifications include a PhD in Computer Science or a closely related field.  Candidates interested in Computer Science Education research or collaborating in the department’s existing Computer Science research are encouraged to apply.







                            Academic professionals
                    








            job information
          

There are no open positions available at this time.












            Working in Chicago and at UIC Computer Science
          Heading link



 
Copy link






The Department of Computer Science at UIC has been on a trajectory of rapid expansion for almost a decade, and its faculty now number more than 60. The department is committed to building a diverse faculty preeminent in its missions of research, teaching, and service to the community. Candidates who have experience engaging with a diverse range of faculty, staff, and students, and contributing to a climate of inclusivity are encouraged to discuss their perspectives on these subjects in their application materials.
UIC is a major public research university (Carnegie R1) with about 3,000 faculty and more than 34,000 students. It is ranked in the national top 20 by U.S. News & World Report for diversity, and it ranks No. 8 in the Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education list of best value institutions. This is a recognition given to universities that provide an excellent education compared with net cost. UIC also is a Hispanic-Serving Institution.
Chicago epitomizes the modern, livable, vibrant, and diverse city. World-class amenities such as the lakefront, arts and culture venues, festivals, and two international airports make Chicago a singularly enjoyable place to live with an affordable cost of living, whether in an 88th-floor condominium downtown or on a tree-lined street in one of the nation’s finest school districts. The birthplace of the modern skyscraper, Chicago boasts one of the world’s tallest and most iconic skylines, an 8,100-acre park system, and extensive public transit and biking networks.
UIC is committed to increasing access to education, employment, programs and services for all. The University of Illinois is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action employer. Minorities, women, veterans, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. UIC is committed to supporting the success of dual-career couples. The University of Illinois conducts background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of contingent offer of employment. Background checks will be performed in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act.








Faculty and Staff


Back to main content









Department Head 

Faculty 

Emeritus Faculty 

Adjunct Faculty 

Postdocs 

Staff 

Faculty Resources 

Open Positions 













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












