 












                            New CS and linguistics major: a perfect fit | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











New CS and linguistics major: a perfect fit


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on August 05, 2021








            New CS and linguistics major: a perfect fit
          Heading link



 
Copy link






As a high school student, Grace Pnacek was torn between two college majors: computer science and linguistics. She likes languages and studying them, and she enjoys the logic of computer science.
Pnacek, now a rising junior at UIC, ultimately chose computer science and focused on an aspect of it—natural language processing—that relates to giving computers the ability to understand language in the way that human beings use it. She thought about minoring in linguistics but hated having to choose.
That all changed when UIC introduced a new major, CS and linguistics. The program, housed in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, offers a mix of computer science and linguistics courses along with math and statistics.
“This is perfect—this is exactly what I wanted to study,” Pnacek said.
While linguistics has traditionally been more about language structure, use, and learning, computers are processing and analyzing more human language. Majors that combine CS and linguistics are starting to make headway on college campuses.
Associate Professor Xuehua Xiang, head of the linguistics department and its director of undergraduate studies, sees excitement around the new major. She said about a dozen students have pre-declared the major and are completing their prerequisites, and another 25 incoming students have declared their intention to enroll.
Pnacek hopes to work in natural language processing and believes that having a good undergraduate base in both computer science and linguistics will be ideal. She thinks the major also will appeal to students who are looking for software engineering jobs or for research jobs in linguistics, as the two fields become more closely intertwined.
This summer, Pnacek is an intern at Relativity as a software engineer.
She’s also served as a teaching assistant for UIC’s Break Through Tech Chicago, an initiative to increase gender diversity in the tech world. Pnacek worked for both the summer and winter offerings of the Guild program, as well as for Break Through Tech Chicago’s first introduction to CS course.
She’s excited about a return to campus and looks forward to uncovering what comes after graduation.
“I don’t know if I want to get a master’s degree and conduct research in academia, or go to industry and do research there, or become a software engineer—I want to do all of it!” Pnacek said. “There are just too many things I enjoy.”




Modified on August 05, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












