 












                            The remarkable versatility of computer science | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











The remarkable versatility of computer science


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on July 19, 2021








            The remarkable versatility of computer science
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Ashma Pandya knows that a solid background in computer science will allow her to be a better biochemist and a more efficient researcher.
The rising junior is a biochemistry major with a minor in computer science. Her self-styled studies include advanced topics in chemistry, biology and genetics, cell biology, physiology, and advanced mathematics, supplemented with computer science studies. She hopes to complete a PhD in biophysics after completing her undergraduate education, then work in an astrobiology lab. Her research mission is to build a prototype of the first living cell.
To achieve that, Pandya will lean on the skills she is honing in her computer science minor.
“As things are becoming more and more digitized, computer science is starting to play a larger role in STEM overall,” Pandya said. “I feel like I’m learning the tools I need to make my research broader in scope and faster in execution.”
Pandya is one of 400 U.S. college students to receive a Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation award, which honors undergraduates who “show exceptional promise of becoming this nation’s next generation of research leaders” in their fields.
She already has put her computer skills to work. For a book chapter that correlates antibiotic resistance to bacterial evolution, she performed computational analysis on the data. She helped compile an open repository of SARS-CoV-2 inhibitors from more than 3,000 scientific papers. Pandya is working in the laboratory of Andy Nguyen, UIC professor of chemistry, using Python scripts and generating 3D models of nanocages that deliver anticancer drugs to tumors. She also served as a teaching assistant for CS112, a version of the introductory computer science course that is taught through a biological lens, under Clinical Associate Professor Patrick Troy.
“The computer science minor has taught me more than just computer science,” Pandya said. Programming is like playing with Lego blocks. It’s easy to understand but demands creativity. It’s an art instead of precision engineering.”
This summer, Pandya said her leisure activities include a machine learning class via Coursera, building a personal website on Github, and writing poetry.
Pandya encourages everyone to learn the basics of computer science.
“College is the perfect opportunity,” she said. “It can be simple, like Python. You can hire someone or learn it yourself. I encourage everyone to learn how to code.”
To learn more about Pandya and her research, read this April story on UIC Today.




Modified on July 20, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












