 












                            Course on knowledge graphs link students from across majors | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Course on knowledge graphs link students from across majors


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on June 16, 2021








            Course on knowledge graphs link students from across majors
          Heading link



 
Copy link



In the summer of 2020, Distinguished Professor Isabel Cruz took a timely course about online teaching. Cruz, like fellow academics around the world, had been abruptly forced to shift her classes online due to COVID-19 and thought anything that could help her enhance the online learning experience for her students would be valuable.
“Part of our class focused on choosing a topic—it could be something you had taught before or a new course—and completely reimagining it online, from start to finish. You would recreate the whole thing,” Cruz said.
From that experience, the interdisciplinary CS586 Data and Web Semantics: “Knowledge Graphs” was born, and Cruz couldn’t have been more pleased with the turnout, attracting what she described as the perfect mix of master’s and PhD students from across the College of Engineering and beyond.
The class focused on data modeling and semantics, knowledge representation, querying, metadata, data integration and interoperation, web services, and applications.
Cruz split the class into five groups, each headed by a domain expert who was a PhD student from outside of computer science. They included three mechanical and industrial engineering students, a chemistry major, and a biomedical and health informatics student. Each domain expert was joined by at least two computer science students, typically one PhD student and one master’s student.
The teams worked on a project grounded in the domain expert’s research, helping them model their work.
Jackie Rojas Robles, a mechanical engineering PhD student who was the domain expert for her team, was intrigued when she heard about the course, and hoped to build a tool similar to one she uses on Nanohub that can more easily locate data on antimicrobial coatings for metals, which will let her simulate other properties of metals.
“With help from my team members, I wanted to explore how to structure that knowledge, maybe facilitate the design and use of these coatings more easily,” Rojas Robles said.
Lydia Tse, a computer science master’s student and data visualization engineer for Nike, was attracted to the interdisciplinary aspect of the course.
“It seems like we seldom have the opportunity to interact with other fields and take the skills we’ve learned to solve other problems,” Tse said. “It was valuable on multiple levels.”
Tse worked on a project related to COVID-19 data, using natural language processing techniques to distill information.
“Working with someone who was not perhaps as well-versed in computer science techniques, I had to bridge that gap and present the information in a way that is coherent and would let them ask questions,” Tse said. “It was good practice; how do you get to know your audience when presenting highly technical information, and how do you distill it so they understand enough so you can move forward together?”
Cruz agreed, noting the challenges of working across disciplines, which she feels is at the heart of data science.
“The most difficult problems I have to solve are from other disciplines,” Cruz said. “As a researcher, maybe I’m working with someone in geography, or the College of Medicine. They know what they want to do but not how to do it. And I have to help figure out how to help them represent the data and work with their data.”
Cruz admired the hard work of her students, praising their dedication and curiosity, saying they took to the material fearlessly.
“What I enjoyed the most was that it was structured to let everyone deep dive into the topic they were interested in and collaborate with people you don’t usually work with,” said Rojas Robles.
The course will be offered by Cruz again in Fall 2021.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












