 












                            Designing a network (and networking) | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Designing a network (and networking)


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on June 16, 2021








            Designing a network (and networking)
          Heading link



 
Copy link









As recently as a few weeks ago, Afifa Nadeem knew how to connect her computer to the internet, but she had scant knowledge about the physical infrastructure that permitted that seamless access to the web.
Today, she has a general sense of how to design networks to serve entire neighborhoods.
Nadeem is one of five UIC students who worked with Cisco, the networking hardware, software, and technology services company, as part of Break Through Tech Chicago’s micro-internship program, Sprinternships. She and Amanda Arreguin, Ann Kim, Rose Maxime, and Angelica Rivas spent three weeks learning about the company, meeting and working with Cisco engineers, hearing from guest speakers, and working on an in-depth project.
Their in-depth project built on UIC’s and Cisco’s shared interest in community outreach. The Sprinterns came up with a way to leverage the university’s computer network to bridge Chicago’s digital divide and help a neighboring community with no-cost internet access.
“We chose the Pilsen neighborhood,” Nadeem said. “With COVID-19 shutting down schools and many businesses shut down, we thought free internet was important.”
The team worked with Cisco engineers to design the network using routers, switches, cloud management products, and Fluidmesh, a product that connects Internet of Things devices.
Eric Lindbloom, a Cisco account manager who worked with the group, said the Sprinterns went through three iterations of their design, refining it each time after receiving feedback from the engineers. They presented their findings, including a budget, to more than two dozen Cisco employees and executives on the last day of their Sprinternship.
“We were blown away by their work,” said Samantha Kozub, a project manager with Cisco. “They were completely engaged in this project. They had a passion in the message they wanted to convey and a relentless pursuit of trying to get the right answers.”
Kozub said it is their hope that the Sprinterns will stay in touch with Cisco; the company has offered monthly meetings with a rotation of all the mangers in her team. The Sprinterns’ work, while not implementation-ready, could be helpful in inspiring or guiding future projects.
Ann Kim said the Sprinternship made her more comfortable in her skills.
“I was scared before about how I could apply my university knowledge to a career,” she said. “I realize I shouldn’t be worried about that—a company will help me learn in the job.”
Nadeem said the experience gave her new ideas about future roles.
“I think this opened the door to me exploring a career on the network and system-design side of computer engineering,” she said. “Break Through Tech has a really good program. It’s very helpful for all the women pursuing an engineering career. I encourage all computer science and computer engineering majors to take advantage of this program.”
Photograph (UIC Engineering / Jim Young): Afifa Nadeem in front of a mural in Pilsen by the artist Pablo Serrano
This story first appeared on Break Through Tech Chicago’s website.







 



















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












