 












                            Data visualizations unite water and air | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Data visualizations unite water and air


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on June 02, 2021








            Data visualizations unite water and air
          Heading link



 
Copy link






As an undergraduate, Jonathan Vega didn’t know much about contrails, those white streaks of water vapor and engine exhaust that follow airplanes across the sky. But that changed when he participated in a research project on the links between contrails and climate change.
Vega, a 2020 graduate of the BS in computer science program, happened upon the project by chance: one of his professors, G. Elisabeta Marai, had posted a call for research assistants in a UIC student portal. He had loved her video game class, CS 426 Video Game Design and Implementation, and thought the contrails project could be interesting.
His participation ended up having significant outcomes for Vega and for his community, earning him a UIC Chancellor’s Undergraduate Research Award and a chance to help his fellow members of the Colorado River Indian Tribe.
Vega’s role in the research project was to help create a data visualization that would capture the part that contrails play in climate change. “I didn’t know they contributed to global warming,” he said. “It’s like a blanket trapping heat in.”
Climate change is a topic with great personal significance to Vega. Research has shown that the flow of the Colorado River, which his tribe relies on not only for food but also for traditions and ceremonies, has slowed due to global warming, affecting tribe members’ day-to-day lives. He is now exploring ways in which his research can be applied to help his community.
Vega said in addition to the quality of UIC’s computer science program, one of the biggest reasons he attended UIC was the school’s Native American Support Program, which helped him navigate college and help him graduate. He hopes his future jobs will involve creating video games that incorporate his culture and heritage. He also is considering pursuing a master’s degree in computer science, as he’s developed a love for research.
The High-performance Computing and Data-driven Modeling of Aircraft Contrails project (PI: Roberto Paoli; Co-PI: G. Elisabeta Marai) is sponsored by the National Science Foundation through award # CBET-1854815.




Modified on September 07, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












