 












                            Can’t meet your friends to play your favorite game? | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Can’t meet your friends to play your favorite game?


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on May 26, 2021


Radison Akerman wrote over 10,000 lines of code to move the fun online.






            Can’t meet your friends in person to play your favorite game?
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Back in high school, Radison Akerman and his friends were really interested in a card game called Exploding Kittens. Not wanting to drop the $20 to purchase the game outright, they cobbled together their own version, painstakingly hand-drawing cards. They named it Exploding Chickens and spent countless hours at lunch enjoying their creation. Covid-19 struck, school went online, and the game was shelved.
During winter break of his senior year, Akerman, now a rising sophomore in UIC’s computer science department, decided to develop an online version of their Exploding Chickens game. More than 250 hours of work and 10,000 lines of code later, Akerman and his friends were playing the game virtually.
“I knew how to make it, but we completely underestimated the kind of logic that goes into a card game, there are a lot more moving parts,” Akerman said. “If someone makes a mistake, such as playing a card at a wrong time, a player can pick it back up in an in-person game. In an online game, the computer has to catch that error and notify the player.”
Akerman said his approach to creating the Exploding Chickens online game mirrored another intricate idea he took on: creating a full application to automate finish-line times for an annual raft race on Rockford’s Rock River that he helps manage. When the race first began five years ago, racer’s times had to be hand-calculated to determine a winner. Thanks to an application he spent months to create, the times can be calculated instantaneously.
Akerman became interested in computer science with an introduction to microcontrollers in a FIRST LEGO league, followed by participation in FIRST robotics. He worked for Montel Technologies in Loves Park in high school as a brand developer, learning full stack web development to design the front end of the site to showcase the company’s projects.
This summer, Akerman looks forward to returning to Montel Technologies as an intern in IT systems management and working at UIC through the Guaranteed Paid Internship Program. He also is finishing up a stint as a section leader for Stanford University’s Code in Place, a five-week online program that teaches Python to anyone—no programming background required.
“I heard about the opportunity from Professor Reckinger; she posted about it on Piazza,” Akerman said. “I really like teaching. There are 10 students in my section, but thousands of students take the class. I’m one of the section leaders, out of 1,000 teaching assistants.”
Akerman looks forward to a return to campus next year and hopes to join the Engineering Design Team and Linux Users Group. He is interested in a career at the intersection of cybersecurity and software design.
To play Exploding Chickens online, or learn more about Akerman, visit his website—which he designed, of course.






            Akerman
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Radison Akerman




Modified on August 02, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












