 












                            From student to software engineer | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











From student to software engineer


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on May 06, 2021








            From student to software engineer
          Heading link



 
Copy link






On May 9, Pooja Vemu will receive her computer science degree from UIC. Soon thereafter, she’ll join the Chicago office of legal and compliance technology company Relativity as a software engineer.
Vemu was an intern for the company last summer, working on its core user interface vertical integration team. She executed all of the changes that the design team made to the front end of a website, and at the end of the project, she presented her work to company executives. She accepted a full-time offer in April, and will focus on front-end design and human-centered computing.
Vemu didn’t envision a career as a computer scientist—at least not at first. “I enjoy graphic design and anything artsy and creative,” she said. Those didn’t seem like traits that would connect naturally with code.
At Waubonsie Valley High School in suburban Aurora, Vemu experimented with an engineering class and found herself one of the only girls in it. Encouraged by a supportive teacher who saw her potential, Vemu attended a Society of Women Engineers Shadow Day at UIC.
Shadow Day helped Vemu to recognize that engineering was not for her. But thanks to the relationship she developed with Elsa Soto, the associate director for Women in Engineering Programs, Vemu chose UIC.
“I chose UIC for the opportunities for technology within the city, but as well because of the connections I had there already,” Vemu said.
Where engineering wasn’t a fit, computer science was. Vemu served as a student mentor on Saturdays with UIC’s Girls Who Code club, teaching programming skills and languages to high school students. She was a teaching assistant for two courses: CS 100 Discovering Computer Science and CS 377 Communications and Ethical Issues in Computing. She served on the boards of Women in Computer Science and the Society of Women Engineers. She was a lead teaching assistant for UIC’s Break Through Tech Winter Guild session, a weeklong program that teaches design thinking and problem-solving to women and nonbinary students who are brand new to tech. She also participated in the Grace Hopper Celebration in 2019. She graduates cum laude.
“A lot of time in tech you have imposter syndrome—especially when you encounter new material,” Vemu said. “But though Grace Hopper I realized I was on the right path, and I made great connections.”
Vemu, who lived on campus for her first three years at UIC, moved back home with her parents for her senior year. She’s always been passionate about photography, but this past year she’s indulged her love of baking and cooking.
Vemu plans to stay involved with Girls Who Code and hopes to become an instructor with the program, a path taken by many program alumnae.
“It’s been such a big part of what I’ve been doing,” she said. “In high school I was looking for a supportive environment, and I’ve been able to find that here. I want to provide that to other people, for other women in tech.”
“It’s incredible how effective a strong community can be for an individual,” she added.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












