 












                            A girl who codes heads out into the working world | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











A girl who codes heads out into the working world


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on May 06, 2021








            A girl who codes heads out into the working world
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Since her introduction to the Girls Who Code program as a high school student, senior Gina Gerace knew she wanted to become a computer scientist. She graduates from UIC this month and will join the Chicago office of Avanade as a back-end developer.
Gerace started with Avanade, an information technology consulting company that was founded as a joint venture between Microsoft Corporation and Accenture, as a software engineering intern last June. During her internship, she helped to build out the web version of a mobile phone application. The company recently offered her a full-time position.
Gerace was active during her time at UIC: as a board member of Women in Computer Science (first as outreach chair, this year as co-president), a member of the Society of Women Engineers, a student mentor for the campus Girls Who Code program, a member of the Honors College, an undergraduate teaching assistant for CS 141 Program Design II, a programmer for College of Engineering faculty websites, and an intern in the Computational Population Biology Lab.
“My first year I focused on classes; then I got involved,” Gerace said. “Girls Who Code and the Women in Computer Science program were my favorite parts of UIC. I’m so glad I joined. Most of my friends are from those groups.”
She’s also participated in the Grace Hopper Celebration and competed in Google Tech Challenges at UIC, placing first in one of the challenges. She maintained a 4.0 GPA throughout her UIC career.
Gerace, who lived on campus during her freshman and sophomore years and in an apartment near Taylor Street for her junior year, liked exploring Little Italy and appreciated how convenient it was to take the CTA Blue Line to her family’s home in Oak Park. She also enjoyed movie nights and hanging out in the computer science lounge between classes.
Gerace recently learned that two high school students who came to Saturday sessions of UIC’s Girls Who Code have committed to start their college education at UIC this fall.
“It’s so exciting to see the next generation in the making,” she said.
Gerace is thankful to her family for their support and knows they are proud of her accomplishments.
“I’m just excited to be a developer and see what comes next,” she said.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












