 












                            Enhancing privacy-preserving computation with advanced cryptography | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Enhancing privacy-preserving computation with advanced cryptography


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on April 13, 2021








            Enhancing privacy-preserving computation with advanced cryptography
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Just about every day, we share large amounts of personally identifiable data to access a variety of services—with our doctors, on social media, or via an online retailer for our latest purchase. The onus is on the recipients of that information to keep it safe while using it for the computations they need to perform.
Therefore, the need for privacy-preserving computation on big data is greater than ever. Peihan Miao, an assistant professor of computer science, is working to improve functionality and efficiency of these systems by developing new advanced cryptographic tools.
Miao and Mohammad Hajiabadi from Pennsylvania State University are collaborating on two sides of the privacy conundrum. They seek to improve the efficiency, functionality, and security of the underlying cryptographic tools from a theoretical perspective and a practical one.
“We are trying to provide a way to compute on sensitive data while protecting the privacy of the underlying data,” Miao said.
She is working to improve a fundamental cryptography tool called oblivious transfer, a protocol in which one party sends several pieces of information to a recipient but is oblivious about which, if any, are received. Improving its functioning and efficiency would help users to keep up with the demands for privacy created by machine learning applications and imposed by governments, such as the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation and the California Privacy Rights Act, both of which protect consumers from the transfer of their personal data.
Using these advanced cryptographic tools will open up a lot of applications, as what companies can do now is quite limited. For example, using new privacy-preserving tools, multiple hospitals would have the ability to run analytics or share data with one another through secure multi-party computation.
“Secure multi-party computation enables multiple entities to share their data for more advanced analytics, such as running machine learning or deep learning algorithms, to perform more comprehensive study on the data. This is all done while preserving their data privacy,” Miao said.
One practical problem Miao hopes to enhance through her research is private set intersection, a function that allows two parties each holding a set of private elements to compare encrypted versions of these sets of data, in order to compute the intersection of their private elements.
For example, an advertiser might compare its encrypted data on its campaigns against encrypted data from a website to determine the effectiveness of an approach. Private set intersection also can be used for breached password monitoring, a service offered by Google Chrome, Apple iCloud Keychain, and Microsoft Edge. These platforms keep track of a user’s passwords and would be able to detect when the user’s password was breached—but without learning what the password is.
Miao, who joined UIC in 2020, received a $250,000 National Science Foundation grant for this work, titled Expanding the Realm of Oblivious Transfer: New Tools for Cryptography. The grant period begins June 1. Hajiabadi received a similar grant for his portion of the project. Miao’s research focuses on cryptography and security, including secure multiparty computation, applied cryptography, secure authentication, and blockchain. She is seeking new graduate students to participate in her research.




Modified on April 13, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












