 












                            Patrick Asztabski finds a home in the new data science major | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Patrick Asztabski finds a home in the new data science major


Posted on March 02, 2021








            Sophomore Patrick Asztabski finds a home in the new data science major
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Patrick Asztabski, a sophomore, recently transferred into the new data science program. He was previously an applied statistics major.
Q: What prompted you to switch majors?
A: I’ve always liked working with statistics and data in general. Statistics is a really valuable discipline for solving some real-life problems. Recently I took a computer science course because I’ve been curious to work with data science and computer programming. When I received an announcement about the creation of the major, I thought, “Wow, this is perfect!” This is what I wanted to do when I chose applied statistics as a major. I wanted to go into data science, but the major didn’t exist then.
Q: Have you chosen a concentration?
A: I have a few in mind, statistics or social technology studies. I’ve also thought about health data science.
Q: What does your semester look like, now that you’ve switched to data science?
A: While I was still an applied statistics major, I took STAT 381 Applied Statistical Methods and liked learning the different distribution methods. I like the challenge of translating a problem from English to math and back to English. I really enjoy the specificity of each problem. I also took MCS 260, where I learned Python.
This semester, now that I’m in the data science program, I’m taking four courses toward my major: CS 141 Program Design II and CS 151 Mathematical Foundations of Computing, where I’ll learn Java and C++; MATH 310 Applied Linear Algebra; and STAT 382 Statistical Methods and Computing.
This interview was edited for clarity.
UIC’s data science degree program officially launches this fall, but students can begin to take courses in the new major, which is housed in the computer science department. In addition to core courses in areas including foundational mathematics, statistics, computer science, and ethics, nine areas of concentration allow students to focus on a variety of industries that are increasingly dependent on data analysis. Learn more here.




Modified on October 04, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












