 












                            Meet Kaylynn Arrington, a student in UIC's new data science major | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Meet Kaylynn Arrington, a student in UIC’s new data science major


Posted on March 02, 2021








            Meet Kaylynn Arrington, a student in UIC's new data science major
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Junior Kaylynn Arrington recently changed her major to data science, part of a new degree program at UIC. Here is our interview with her about why she’s choosing this new career path.
Q: What prompted you to switch majors?
A: I knew I wanted to go into computer science. I like technology and math and learned it was something I could do. After my freshman year I wanted to do something more math-focused and data-focused. It became really clear when I compared my math classes to my computer science classes that I wanted more of a balance. Originally, I was going to switch to the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences to become a mathematics and computer science major, but I really wanted to stay in the College of Engineering. Someone mentioned they were creating the data science degree within the computer science department, which was perfect.
Q: Have you chosen a concentration?
A: Yes, computer science. I know I want to be in this field because I enjoy using an analytical approach to solving things. To do that using math makes even more sense. I didn’t know how to have a job like that, but through computer science and specifically data science, a much larger piece of the work will be math-related. Data has always been here and will always be here; we will always have to understand things. That’s why I like it as well.
Q: Do you know what career path you want to pursue?
A: I’m not 100 percent sure on specific fields within data science, but I’m very interested in cybersecurity. I have an internship this summer with Origami Risk Management as a risk systems analyst where I’m hoping to learn more. I’m also working on a website that will go live soon. It’s through a scholarship with the National Science Foundation’s S-STEM program, which provides resources for undocumented undergraduate students.
This interview was edited for clarity.
UIC’s data science degree program officially launches this fall, but students can begin to take courses in the new major, which is housed in the computer science department. In addition to core courses in areas including foundational mathematics, statistics, computer science, and ethics, nine areas of concentration allow students to focus on a variety of industries that are increasingly dependent on data analysis. Learn more here.




Modified on March 02, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












