 












                            For great tech, start with people | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











For great tech, start with people


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on January 20, 2021








            For great tech, start with people
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Jackie Moore leads a session of Break Through Tech Chicago's Winter Guild
        


Sometimes, skipping a step is good. You might get done faster, with a little bit less work.
Not so with “design thinking,” a process that 96 Break Through Tech Chicago participants experimented with in Winter Guild.
Design thinking is often called “human-centered design.” It involves understanding what the eventual users of a product or system will really need, then designing a solution based on that. It’s a perfect approach for tackling the serious social problem that Winter Guild students took on: food insecurity in Chicago.
Jackie Moore, one of the three instructors, kept reminding the Guild participants to not jump over the crucial early stages in design thinking.
“Remember, we want to get a picture of who we’re trying to help,” she advised. “Who is the client, and what might they want? Are they the food provider or the person receiving help? Are we looking at a single mom, a college student, or someone who works at a food pantry?”
“Try to understand who this person is and what they might need,” she said. “The solutions will come later.”
Moore’s guidance is rooted in the fact that design thinking begins with a thorough grasp of a person’s issue from their point of view, often via one-on-one interviews and direct observation. Equipped with that information, you can brainstorm. Then you can devise a prototype solution to the person’s problem, test it, and refine it. All of that needs to happen before you can put any plan into action.
Guild, a Break Through Tech Chicago program that allows UIC and community college women to experiment with problem-solving using technology, lasts five days. It’s a short period of time, which means that students—who work together in teams of four—need to follow the design-thinking sequence with creativity and efficiency.
They have help from their instructors, from a group of teaching assistants who are current computer science majors at UIC, and from volunteer mentors from the tech industry.
By the third day of Guild, they were developing a more robust picture of the person they were trying to help: some teams were learning about Chicago residents who need help getting enough high-quality food to eat, and others were learning about the people who run local food banks. By the fifth day, they had taken their new knowledge and come up with apps that could improve their clients’ day-to-day lives. They built prototype versions of the apps in AppLab, which allows even beginner users to design an app and code it using JavaScript.
One team’s app was designed to serve a college student who came to the United States from another country. They imagined that person’s potential language barriers, unfamiliarity with the food products available in the United States, and inexperience with using Chicago public transit to access food sources in other neighborhoods. The tech solution they created had to account for all of these possible issues.
Another team designed their solution for an older person suffering from multiple health challenges whose diet needed to sync with their medications. The group worked on its app knowing that their end user might not be comfortable with technology and might benefit from additional human connection.
In addition to this project, Guild students spent the week learning more about technology, including cybersecurity, tech jobs, and various areas of expertise that fall under the broader umbrella of tech and computer science. It’s the ultimate in learning while doing.
“We have them crossing the bridge while they build it,” Moore said.
Break Through Tech Chicago seeks to create space for women in the tech world by preparing more female college students with a computer science major or minor from UIC. It is part of a national network that started at Cornell Tech and that receives funding from Pivotal Ventures, the Cognizant U.S. Foundation, and Verizon. Learn more about Break Through Tech Chicago programs, including its upcoming three-week Sprinternships.




Modified on April 19, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












