 












                            Meet Jovad Uribe of UIC’s new data science program | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Meet Jovad Uribe of UIC’s new data science program


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on January 11, 2021








            Meet Jovad Uribe, a junior in UIC’s new data science program
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Junior Jovad Uribe just transferred into the computer science department, and is taking classes in the new data science program. He was a finance major.
Q: What prompted you to switch majors?
A: I heard about the major through a friend who is a computer science major. I am part of the Quantitative Trading Club at UIC, and we focus on building trading strategies and teaching others how to do the same thing. As a finance major I didn’t have too strong a background in programming, but I found myself on the computer all the time, building trading algorithms. I really enjoyed it. This summer I held an internship at an algorithmic trading software company, where I learned a lot about data science, building algorithms, and software development. It made me realize I wanted to pursue a career at the intersection of finance and technology. I applied the data analysis and data mining I’d learned. I had taken a computer science class in high school, but not before my internship this summer and I had to pick up some skills on the spot. I enjoy a challenge and thought why not pursue a new major?
Q: Have you chosen a concentration?
A: I’ve chosen computer science as my concentration, mainly because I want to build certain applications alongside techniques I want to employ with data. I’ve unofficially declared my minor as business administration. I really like how the program is set up. It provides a lot of concentrations to build domain knowledge of what you want to learn.
Q: Do you know what career path you want to pursue?
A: As I was entering college I knew I wanted to enter the finance industry. I didn’t know exactly where, so I majored in finance. A major in finance is great if you’re going for a finance career in commercial banking, financial advising, or other qualitative forms of finance—but the other 50 percent of finance is very quantitative. A lot of the hedge fund industry is moving toward data science, and I want to enter the quantitative hedge fund space.
This interview was edited for clarity.
UIC’s data science degree program officially launches this fall, but students can begin to take courses in the new major, which is housed in the computer science department. In addition to core courses in areas including foundational mathematics, statistics, computer science, and ethics, nine areas of concentration allow students to focus on a variety of industries that are increasingly dependent on data analysis. Learn more here.




Modified on October 04, 2021













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












