 












                            Siham Hussein juggles work, volunteerism with graduation | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Siham Hussein juggles work, volunteerism with graduation


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on December 18, 2020








            Siham Hussein juggles work, volunteerism with graduation
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Siham Hussein
        


For Siham Hussein (BS ’15, MS ’20), earning a master’s degree in computer science was just one item on this month’s very busy agenda. The senior software engineer was juggling finals, full-time work at Google, and computer-science-related volunteering.
Hussein, who finished her bachelor’s degree in computer science summa cum laude, returned to UIC for a master’s to delve into research areas she didn’t explore during her undergraduate years, including theoretical mathematics, natural language processing, and machine learning.
“I went in knowing that it wasn’t going to directly impact my job, but I wanted to pursue something outside of work,” she said.
Hussein never stops learning at her job, either. She recently was promoted to senior software engineer and said that growth opportunities are readily available at Google, a large company with a vast product line.
“If you’re interested in learning a new thing, there are people to teach you that new thing,” she said. The company also allows staff members to explore via “20-percent projects,” which allow you to “do your primary role and still take on another project.”
Hussein primarily works on privacy products, including Google Takeout, a tool to allow users to download their data to another device. This can include photos, documents, contacts, and other files. She works on the team that is handling the back end, or service-integration end, of the project, which is leading the development of the open source code.
Inside and outside of Google, Hussein is an active volunteer. This month, she participated in Computer Science Education Week, an annual community-led effort whose mission statement is “to inspire K-12 students to learn computer science, advocate for equity in computer science education, and celebrate the contributions of students, teachers, and partners to the field.” She sits on the community engagement committee at Google, which visits area high schools and middle schools to show students what a software engineer looks like. Finally, she works with Girls Who Code, a group that aims to close the gender gap in tech by offering coding clubs and summer camps for girls in secondary school, as well as college programs.
Hussein feels strongly about mentorship and reaching out to encourage women to find careers in tech.
“I think the biggest blocker that took me to come to terms with is the imposter syndrome,” she said. “Everyone feels it at some point in their career. You have to recognize it and overcome it, or it can completely cripple you.”
Hussein almost didn’t pursue a career in tech. She came to UIC as a chemistry major, intending to pursue pharmacy. She excelled in chemistry and AP calculus in high school but realized in college that she didn’t enjoy chemistry as much as she thought she did—the memorization required in organic chemistry wasn’t for her. Searching for other options, she recalled an introductory tech class she took in high school, and switched majors.
“The tech class in high school involved a little programming, Excel, word processing, and designing web pages,” she said. “What I liked about chemistry was the math behind it. CS was the perfect blend of theoretical and application.”
With her master’s degree behind her, Hussein will have more time to enjoy her hobbies, which include crocheting and knitting, baking cake pops and all things chocolate, and wasting “what would be productive hours” on Animal Crossing.
To learn more about the CS master’s degree program, visit https://cs.uic.edu/graduate/















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












