 












                            University Scholar Peter Nelson | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











University Scholar Peter Nelson


by UIC News contributor
|
Posted on November 17, 2020








            University Scholar Peter Nelson
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The University Scholars Program, now in its 35th year, honors faculty members for superior research and teaching, along with great promise for future achievements. The award provides $15,000 a year for three years.
Peter Nelson 
Dean, UIC College of Engineering
Years at UIC: 32
What are your research interests?
Interdisciplinary problem solving and, more specifically, applied artificial intelligence to solve problems of interest such as transportation, including route planning, computational biology, manufacturing optimization, email spam countermeasures and more recently mobile health applications working on the UIC BiAffect team led by Dr. Alex Leow.
How did you become interested in these topics? 
My initial interest in AI developed when I took a course in my first year of graduate studies and I was exposed to writing programs that solve symbolic problems. This course was taught by a psychology professor, which is a good example of the interdisciplinary nature of AI and computer science. My research interests have been driven by opportunity, namely the opportunity to work with very interesting people from different fields and to work on problems that I would like to learn more about and hopefully solve. My interest in applied AI for transportation was fostered by UIC Professor Emeritus David Boyce who was director of the Urban Transportation Center when I joined UIC.
What do you teach?
Currently, most of my time is spent being dean of the College of Engineering. The last class I taught was a communication course for CS majors, more than five years ago. I do usually have a few undergraduates for independent research projects as well as graduate student mentoring.
How do you balance leadership and research?
I give highest priority to my administrative responsibilities since others are dependent on these efforts. My research is now exclusively through collaboration, which puts pressure on me to find some time to deliver what I have committed to doing.
What’s your advice to students who want to focus their future careers on research?
Research is discovery, so pick subdisciplines and problems that interest you. If you want research to be a career, eventually someone is going to have to pay you to do the research, so you also need to think about the level of interest others have in what you are doing. Find strong mentors and advisors — smart, creative people that will have time for you and make your advancement one of their high priorities.
This story first appeared on UIC Today




Modified on November 17, 2020













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












