 












                            CS department welcomes three new faculty members | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











CS department welcomes three new faculty members


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on August 27, 2020








            CS department welcomes three new faculty members
          Heading link



 
Copy link



UIC computer science welcomes three new faculty members: Clinical Assistant Professor Adam Koehler, Assistant Professor Peihan Miao, and Assistant Professor Fabio Miranda.
Adam Koehler most recently was a teaching assistant in the department of computer science and engineering at the University of California Riverside. He spent nearly a decade there, also serving as a research assistant and associate instructor while earning his doctorate in computer science. He received his BS and MS in computer science from Marquette University. Koehler’s focus is computer science education and includes work on automated tools and techniques for improving its delivery. He grew up outside Chicago and is happy to return to the area. Koehler will teach all sections of CS 109, Programming for Engineers with MatLab.
Piehan Miao worked as a research scientist in the cryptography group of Visa Research before joining UIC. She received her PhD from University of California, Berkeley, and her BS degree from ACM Honors Class at Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China. Her research interests are in cryptography and security, including secure computation, applied cryptography, secure authentication, and blockchain. Miao develops cryptographic tools to build practical systems with provable security and privacy guarantees, aiming to bridge the gap between theory and practice. She is a member of the Theory Group at UIC and will teach CS 494, Special Topics in Computer Science.
Fabio Miranda will join the department in October. Most recently, he was a postdoctoral research associate at the Visualization and Data Analytics Center and the Center for Urban Science and Progress at New York University, where he earned his PhD. During his doctoral studies, he completed internships at Argonne National Laboratory, IBM Research, AT&T Labs Research, and Sandia National Laboratories. Miranda’s research focuses on proposing new methods and systems that allow for the interactive visual analysis of large data of different types, such as time-series, spatio-temporal, geometry, and image data. By combining visualization, machine learning, data management, and computer graphics, his work tackles fundamental challenges in data science, enabling effective analysis of large data to untangle real-world problems.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












