 












                            Mitchell Theys receives UIC’s highest teaching honor | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Mitchell Theys receives UIC’s highest teaching honor


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on August 12, 2020








            Mitchell Theys receives UIC’s highest teaching honor
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Mitchell Theys, a clinical associate professor of computer engineering, received UIC’s highest teaching honor: the Award for Excellence in Teaching. The accolade, given by the Office of the Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, is bestowed on up to five faculty members per year university wide.
“It’s always nice to be recognized,” Theys said. “I enjoy teaching, I enjoy problem solving, and I enjoy trying to explain material to the students.”
Theys just finished his 21st year teaching at UIC. He considered a career in industry but thought academia would be more interesting and challenging. He specifically admires the student body at UIC.
“I’m amazed. I didn’t have to contend with student debt, with working, with supporting a family while in school. It makes you feel really good that we can help improve their situation and help them realize the opportunities to do what they want,” he said.
Theys says his biggest focus as an instructor is to get his students to ask questions.
“I often get, ‘How do I do it? Just tell me the steps that I need to do and I’ll do them.’ And that’s not what engineering is about. It’s about problem solving,” Theys said.
The move to online learning this spring, while difficult, provided some unexpected benefits in this area; Theys said he found many more of his students asking questions in the chat windows. Whether it was the anonymity provided by the online format or the unique situation of being isolated at home, Theys noted an increased level of interaction, which he hopes to keep up even when classes return to campus.
Theys is also the faculty advisor for both the Linux Users Group (LUGS) and Association for Computing Machinery Student Chapter (ACM) and finds that attending social activities with the groups helps his students relate to him.
Ultimately, teaching students to apply that creative, engineering mindset to their work is critical to Theys’ approach in the classroom.
“We can teach them the steps of problem solving. That’s why I think our students are in such high demand. A lot of students don’t have experience with applying the state of the art in a new way, and we encourage that here,” Theys said.
Theys and the other Award for Excellence in Teaching recipients are scheduled to be honored in a ceremony October 28, 2020.
 















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












