 












                            A secure, privacy-preserving contact tracing method | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











A secure, privacy-preserving contact tracing method


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on June 23, 2020








            A secure, privacy-preserving contact tracing method
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Venkat Venkatakrishnan
        


Apple and Google recently rolled a joint contract tracking-tracing application which will allow apps developed by states and countries to track COVID-19 cases via a user’s cellphones. Those who choose to adopt the alert system will be notified when they were in proximity to someone who tested positive for the disease. A few states have rolled out apps, but security concerns persist, and adoption of the technology by citizens remains low.
Venkat Venkatakrishnan, associate dean for research and graduate studies and professor of computer science at UIC and interim director of research at Discovery Partners Institute, along with Parthasarathy Madhusudan and Ling Ren of University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, released a white paper in May, Privacy-Preserving Secure Contact Tracing, ConTraIL Project, offering a more secure architecture for contact tracing.
The researchers’ privacy goals are extremely high. Their system keeps interactions HIPAA compliant and also protects users’ privacy from the app and the server that computes contacts, healthcare providers reporting illness, the government tracking cases, and external attackers. Their framework will rely heavily on cryptography to ensure privacy, similar to the type used in secure internet communications for bank transactions and financial trading.
“In this architecture, all users keep their personal information on their phone, and any information sent to others is encrypted in a fashion that no one else can decrypt. Consequently, all computations and communication happen only on encrypted undecryptable data,” Venkatakrishnan said.
A user would set up an account, and a unique, secret key would randomly be generated — information not shared with anyone or even with the server. Ephemeral IDs (EID) would be generated by this key and beamed to other nearby users. The protocols proposed by Venkatakrishnan and his colleagues dovetail with Apple-Google’s mechanism of using Bluetooth on phones to record the location and time of any given user. But through a mechanism called Context Signature Verification (CSV), a cryptographic hash or code would be added to the beamed EIDs, adding a time and location stamp to the interaction. This way, if a system user were to be notified of a potential exposure, their phone would first verify that the CSVs of the COVID-19 positive individual matched — that they were indeed at the same place at the same time.
This mechanism solves the problem of long-range relay attacks, where a Bluetooth device that was collecting EIDs, say, in a supermarket in Chicago, could be hacked and relayed to Los Angeles, sending false alerts to users who were not in contact with that infected person and undermining the entire tracing system.
The group is currently speaking with industry through the Discovery Partner Institute, working to get their recommendations adopted at large.
 
Scientists around the world are racing to contribute to the understanding of the novel SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, and the COVID-19 disease it causes. Here at UIC, researchers in the Computer Science Department are engaged in studies related to the disease outbreak. Updates to the research will be published as they are made available.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












