 












                            Students in Break Through Tech’s CS 100 course learn about thwarting cyber attackers | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Students in Break Through Tech’s CS 100 course learn about thwarting cyber attackers


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on June 09, 2020








            Students in Break Through Tech’s CS 100 course learn about thwarting cyber attackers
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Chris Kanich demonstrates how he appeared to hack the email of instructor Shanon Reckinger
        


The summer introductory CS 100 course being offered tuition-free as part of Break Through Tech Chicago allows students to discover computer science and envision themselves in a tech career. In the course’s third week, students focused on algorithms, data structures, ethics, privacy and security, and quantum computing.
Chris Kanich, an associate professor of computer science at UIC who conducts data-driven research on the socio-technical aspects of cybersecurity, shared insights on threat modeling. Students first developed their own inventories of their assets that they would like to protect: physical items, such as laptops, phones, and credit cards; their data, including emails and text messages; and their own personal security. Then they imagined a list of individuals who might threaten the security of those items, from cyber criminals and hackers to classmates and roommates. Finally, they suggested controls they could use to thwart attacks and protect their assets, including strong passwords, antivirus software, physical security systems, and turning off GPS location tracking on their devices.
Kanich advised: “You have to be aware of the attack surface, which is all of the things you can be attacked through to get at your assets, and your operational security, what you do on a day to day basis to protect yourself and others.”
He also led the class through an exercise in which they evaluated nine common approaches to minimize risk. He revealed that non-security experts valued behaviors such as antivirus software, only visiting known or familiar websites, and having strong passwords that are changed frequently and not shared with others. Conversely, security experts feel the most valuable controls are running software updates, employing two-factor authentication, choosing a strong, unique password, and utilizing a password manager.
The lesson ended with students learning how to “be a hacker” by editing how existing webpages appeared on their own computers (the hack wouldn’t change the text on anyone else’s screen who was viewing the same web page).
“Every website has built-in web developer tools,” Kanich explained. “I own my computer, and I can manipulate what is shown on it.”




Modified on June 09, 2020













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












