 












                            Andres Tapia receives scholarships to attend Tapia Conference, Great Minds in STEM Conference | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Andres Tapia receives scholarships to attend Tapia Conference, Great Minds in STEM Conference


by Andrea Poet
|
Posted on September 10, 2019








            Andres Tapia receives scholarships to attend Tapia Conference, Great Minds in STEM Conference 
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Andres Tapia presenting his research at Argonne National Laboratory, where he interned this summer
        


UIC sophomore Andres Tapia received a scholarship from the Richard Tapia Foundation to attend the 2019 Tapia Conference, a conference that celebrates the diversity in computing. Tapia, no relation to the conference’s namesake, Richard A. Tapia, is thrilled to join roughly 1,400 attendees from more than 250 schools at the event, which will be held September 18 through 21 in San Diego. The Tapia Conference is designed to connect students with others with common backgrounds, including ethnicities, disabilities, and gender to create communities that extend beyond the conference.
“I am very excited to attend the conference, and humbled to have been selected to receive a scholarship,” Tapia said. “This is the first time I will attend this conference, and judging by the keynote speakers and other sessions, I will be exposed to many areas within the computer science field.”
Tapia heard about the scholarship in a Computer Science Department email in the spring, and also from Professor and Department Head Robert Sloan, who was his Program Design I instructor. The application consisted of an essay, resume, reference letters, demographic information, and academic transcripts. The scholarship includes the cost of registration, hotel accommodations, and $500 toward travel expenses.
“As a Hispanic student and a person with disabilities, in a field where we do not have large representation, conferences like the Richard Tapia provide a platform for us to appreciate the accomplishments of many students and faculty like me, who can serve as role models and mentors. This conference can provide a network and inspire me to broaden my ideas of what I can do with a degree in Computer Science,” Tapia said in his application.
UIC will also fund the cost of other students who are attending the Tapia conference, through money received through the BRAID program. The BRAID program, which stands for Building, Recruiting, And Inclusion for Diversity, involves 15 universities working to address specific issues. These include modifying computer science courses to make them less intimidating and more appealing to underrepresented students, leading outreach efforts for high school students and teachers to build a diverse pipeline of students, build confidence and community among underrepresented students, and promoting joint majors in areas like computer science and biology. UIC has participated in the program since its inception in 2014.
The first week of the fall semester, Tapia was notified that he received another scholarship, from the Great Minds in STEM organization, to attend their conference September 26 through 28 in Orlando, Florida. Tapia’s scholarship was funded by Oracle Academy. Great Minds in STEM’s mission is to “Be a national leader in keeping America technologically strong by promoting Science, Technology, Engineering and Math careers especially in underserved communities.”
“My main intention was to start networking for potential internships and jobs after graduation,” Tapia explained.
“Andres is exactly the kind of student who makes me really happy and proud to be a UIC Computer Science professor,” Sloan said. “I was delighted to hear that he had won these two awards.”




Modified on September 11, 2019













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












