 












                            Bias and Emergent Instabilities in Socially-embedded Algorithms | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Sep
22
2022

Bias and Emergent Instabilities in Socially-embedded Algorithms
CS Distinguished Lecture Series



        September 22, 2022

    


            11:00 AM - 12:15 PM
            
     



Location
ERF 1043


Address

                                                            842 W Taylor St.,
                                                                                  Chicago,
                                                              IL
                                        60607
                                  


Calendar
Download iCal File



Bias and Emergent Instabilities in Socially-embedded Algorithms
Presenter: Kristina Lerman, University of Southern California
Abstract:Algorithms are embedded in our lives, mediating our interactions with the digital world and with each other. While this creates new opportunities for algorithms to improve the human condition, unthinking reliance on algorithms can threaten even the best-intentioned applications. In this talk, hear how the feedback loop between people and algorithms can amplify subtle biases to create unintended and undesirable outcomes, such as instability and inequality. First, Lerman will describe crowdsourcing systems that aggregate decisions of many people to identify high-quality content, such as the best answers to questions or interesting news stories. Using evidence from statistical studies and controlled experiments, she will show how human cognitive biases interact with algorithmic ranking to create an instability of collective outcomes. This instability can prevent the better-quality options from becoming the most popular. Next, I explore via simulations collaborative filtering-based recommender systems. These simulations reveal how the feedback loop between algorithmic recommendations and personal choices can create algorithmic chaos, which leads to erroneous recommendation and makes the system unstable. As a consequence, slight fluctuations in initial choices result in unpredictable variations of final popularity. Finally, Lerman addresses gender bias in scientific citations. I present theoretical and empirical findings showing how preference to cite authors of the same gender can explain large disparity in citations women receive in many scientific disciplines. These results highlight the need to account for emergent instabilities when building algorithms that interact with people.
Speaker bio: Kristina Lerman is a principal scientist at the University of Southern California Information Sciences Institute, and holds a joint appointment as a research professor in the USC Computer Science Department. Trained as a physicist, she now applies network analysis and machine learning to problems in computational social science, including crowdsourcing, social network, and social media analysis. She is a fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence. Her work on modeling and understanding cognitive biases in social networks has been covered by the Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, and MIT Tech Review.
Faculty host: Elena Zheleva


Contact
Elena Zheleva

zheleva@uic.edu



Date posted
Sep 15, 2022


Date updated
Sep 15, 2022
















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












