 












                            An Overview of High Performance Computing and Future Requirements | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Nov
3
2022

An Overview of High Performance Computing and Future Requirements
CS Distinguished Lecture Series



        November 3, 2022

    


            11:00 AM - 12:30 PM
            
     



Location
ERF 1043


Address

                                                            842 W. Taylor St,
                                                                                  Chicago,
                                                              IL
                                        60607
                                  


Calendar
Download iCal File



An Overview of High Performance Computing and Future Requirements
Presenter: Jack Dongarra, University of Tennessee, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and University of Manchester
Abstract: In this talk we examine how high performance computing has changed over the last 10 years, and look toward the future in terms of trends. These changes have had and will continue to have a major impact on our numerical scientific software. A new generation of software libraries and algorithms are needed for the effective and reliable use of (wide area) dynamic, distributed and parallel environments.
Speaker bio: Jack Dongarra holds an appointment as University Distinguished Professor of Computer Science at the University of Tennessee, has the position ofdistinguished research staff member in the Computer Science and Mathematics Division at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), is the Turing Fellow at the University of Manchester, and is an adjunct professor of computer science at Rice University.
He received a BS in mathematics from Chicago State University in 1972 and an MS in computer science from  Illinois Institute of Technology in 1973. He received his PhD in applied mathematics from the University of New Mexico in 1980. He worked at Argonne National Laboratory until 1989, becoming a senior scientist.
Dongarra specializes in numerical algorithms in linear algebra, parallel computing, the use of advanced-computer architectures, programming methodology, and tools for parallel computers. His research includes the development, testing and documentation of high quality mathematical software.
He has contributed to the design and implementation of the following open source software packages and systems: EISPACK, LINPACK, the BLAS, LAPACK, ScaLAPACK, Netlib, PVM, MPI, NetSolve, Top500, ATLAS, and PAPI. He has published approximately 300 articles, papers, reports and technical memoranda and is coauthor of several books.
He was awarded the IEEE Sid Fernbach Award in 2004 for his contributions in the application of high performance computers using innovative approaches. He received  the first IEEE Medal of Excellence in Scalable Computing in 2008; was the first recipient of the SIAM Special Interest Group on Supercomputing’s award for Career Achievement in 2010; received the IEEE Charles Babbage Award in 2011; and received the ACM/IEEE Ken Kennedy Award in 2013 for his leadership in designing and promoting standards for mathematical software used to solve numerical problems common to high performance computing. Dongarra received the 2021 A. M. Turing Award from the Association of Computing Machinery, an award that is often described as the "Nobel Prize of computing." He is a Fellow of the AAAS, ACM, IEEE, and SIAM and a foreign member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and a member of the US National Academy of Engineering.
Faculty host: Sathya Ravi, sathya@uic.edu


Contact
UIC Computer Science

cs-info@uic.edu



Date posted
Oct 10, 2022


Date updated
Oct 10, 2022
















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












