 












                            Will AI and ML make Economics Obsolete? | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Nov
17
2022

Will AI and ML make Economics Obsolete?
CS Distinguished Lecture Series



        November 17, 2022

    


            11:00 AM - 12:00 PM
            
     



Location
ERF 1043


Address

                                                            842 W. Taylor St,
                                                                                  Chicago,
                                                              IL
                                        606
                                  


Calendar
Download iCal File



Will AI and ML make Economics Obsolete?
Presenter: Rakesh Vohra, University of Pennsylvania
Abstract: A decade before Skynet was supposed to become aware, the economist Robert Solow quipped that the the computer age was everywhere except in the productivity statistics. Thirty-five years on, we still don't see it in the statistics, but it is impossible to dismiss the strides made in, for example, robotics, language and image recognition as well as the production of the same. There is no walk of life that appears untouched by these developments. Nor can one ignore the vast amounts of money attracted to any plausible confection of AI, ML and data science. Can so many plutocrats be wrong? Perhaps, the lesson to be drawn is that these developments have rendered Economics obsolete. To quote Jack Ma, ``Because with access to all kinds of data, we may be able to find the invisible hand of the market.''
Speaker bio: Rakesh Vohra is the George A. Weiss and Lydia Bravo Weiss University Professor at the University of Pennsylvania. Vohra is a leading global expert in mechanism design; an innovative area of game theory that brings together economics, engineering, and computer science. His economics research in mechanism design focuses on the best ways to allocate scarce resources when the information required to make the allocation is dispersed and privately held, an increasingly common condition in present-day environments. His work has been critical to the development of game, auction, and pricing theory—for example, the keyword auctions central to online search engines—and spans such areas as operations research, market systems, and optimal pricing mechanisms.
He formerly taught at Northwestern University, where he was the John L. and Helen Kellogg Professor of Managerial Economics and Decision Sciences in the Kellogg School of Management, with additional appointments in the Department of Economics and the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. He taught from 1985 to 1998 in the Fisher College of Business at Ohio State University. He earned a PhD in mathematics in 1985 from the University of Maryland, an MS in operational research in 1981 from the London School of Economics and a BS (Hon.) in mathematics in 1980 from University College London.
Faculty host: Ian Kash, iankash@uic.edu
This lecture will also be available on Zoom, contact the department for login information.


Contact
UIC Computer Science

cs-info@uic.edu



Date posted
Nov 11, 2022


Date updated
Nov 11, 2022
















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












