 












                            MS students win Mobility Hackathon Chicago with “Feel Your City” platform | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











MS students win Mobility Hackathon Chicago with “Feel Your City” platform


Posted on October 25, 2018






MS students pose with their 1st place “check” from Mobility Hackathon Chicago. Each student was awarded $1,000 and a 3-month membership to Connectory in Chicago. (Left to right: Riccardo Pressiani, Guido Muscioni, Matteo Foglio, Lorenzo Norcini, Claudio Montanari)









            1
          Heading link



 
Copy link







Riccardo Pressiani (MS, ’19) presents Feel Your City device and platform at Mobility Hackathon Chicago on October 21st.








Five MS in Computer Science students won the top prize at Mobility Hackathon Chicago, sponsored by Bosch and KPMG. Their winning platform and device—which they named “Feel Your City”—can collect, visualize, and analyze data about air quality and noise pollution in major metropolitan areas. The idea is to put the sensor on public transportation vehicles, such as bikes, buses, and trains, to give us better information about conditions in the places where we live.
The students each won $1,000 and a three-month membership to the Chicago Connectory, an IoT incubator located in the Merchandise Mart.
The team had 26 continuous hours to come up with an idea and create a working prototype—a challenging task.
“It wasn’t easy,” said Riccardo Pressiani, MS ’19. “We started to think about how we move around Chicago. We’re students, so we use the CTA every day to commute to UIC and back home. The breakthrough happened when we put our skills on the table: what came out [included] sensors, IoT, cloud platforms, data analytics, machine learning, and data visualization. Putting everything together, we came up with Feel Your City.”
The team created machine-learning algorithms to extract useful information from the Feel Your City sensors in real time. The data can be provided to government officials, who can use it in their decision-making to improve the public experience of moving around the city.











            2
          Heading link



 
Copy link







A Divvy bike fabricated with the Feel Your City device which detects noise and air pollution.



“The most exciting thing about this project is the chance to actually use our skills to do something good for the city,” Pressiani said. “It was a great feeling to see how we could build something useful in such a short amount of time, doing what we do every day.”
This was not the team’s first hackathon, but it was their first top prize. They bested 11 other teams.
“We were the only team to physically build something during the event, so we were hoping to get at least one of the prizes,” Pressiani explained, but “we didn’t expect to see such an appreciation for our work from the judges.”
This is only the beginning for Feel Your City. “We would like to continue to work on this project and work with the people we met at the hackathon to go through our idea and understand if and what needs to be adjusted to make it an actual viable product,” Pressiani said.
Putting the victory aside, Pressiani is a big advocate for UIC computer science students attending hackathons.
“We strongly suggest to all our mates to try to join one of these events,” he said. “There are a ton of events like the one we did. Try to find the one that best matches your skills and just do it. Even if you don’t win, these events open you a lot of opportunities thanks to the networking that you can do.”




Modified on December 06, 2018













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












