 












                            Student Opportunities | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Computer Science


Events


Student Opportunities






Student Opportunities






            Upcoming hackathons and competitions
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The University of Iowa is hosting HACKUIOWA in Iowa City October 15-16. This 2-day, non-stop hackathon is open to all university students that have a passion for creating things with technology. Students from all domains and programs are welcome to participate. A travel stipend of up to $250 per team is available.
University of Tennessee Martin hosts its Technology against Tornado Student Competition and Expo The contest is designed to inspire and engage students by transforming their innovative ideas into real-world functional products to empower communities against tornadoes. Letter of intent to participate due November 1.
US Department of Energy CyberForce Competition The annual CyberForce Competition will be held as a hybrid competition this year on November 4-5, 2022. Registration will open in early July and close mid-August. All participants of the CyberForce® Program will be invited to join a virtual career fair held in the Fall of 2022. Industry, national laboratories, and federal agencies will be in attendance to recruit for jobs and internships for their agencies.
 
 
 
check here regularly for upcoming events






            Internships and other opportunities
          Heading link



 
Copy link




Argonne National Laboratory internships: Visit the lab’s Graduate Programs or Undergraduate Programs pages for further information. There are multiple internship programs in different fields, and application requirements and dates may vary for each.

Google’s 2023A CS Research Mentorship Program: This 12-week mentorship program aims to support students from historically marginalized groups to progress in computing research pathways. This can include students with marginalized gender and racial/ethnic identities, students with disabilities, students from low socioeconomic status, first-generation students, and intersections of these groups and others. Learn more and apply now for the January-April mentorship cycle.







            Scholarships
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Chris Jackson Computer Science Education Scholarship: This $5,000 scholarship is awarded to a new recipient every six months. Applicants will be required to discuss their interest in pursuing a computer science degree, their career aspirations, and why they think they should receive the award. Learn more, find out the next available application deadline, and submit your application here.






            Why do hackathons?
          Heading link



 
Copy link






We strongly encourage UIC CS students to sign up for hackathon competitions. Here are some reasons why:

Meeting new people. Not just potential employers—who might watch a hackathon for potential new hires—but also fellow students.
Developing your résumé. Hackathons let you showcase the skills you’ve developed in class and build some new ones.
Enhancing your job interviews. Hackathons make you a more interesting interviewee. You can talk about how you approached a problem, the solutions you considered, and which skills you brought to the table.
Winning! (Of course.)







            More on hackathons
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Hackathon honor roll
                    








            info here
          

UIC students have placed highly in these hackathon events:

BuiltWorlds Hackathon 2019: Riccardo Pressiani, Matteo Foglio, Guido Muscioni, Francesco Sgherzi, Chiara Gambacorta, and Giulia Soresini, Grand Prize
Google Tech Challenge 2019: 3rd place, 5th place
MIT Energy Hack 2018: Chirag Soni, MS ’19
BuiltWorlds Hackathon 2018: Giovanni Agugini Bassi, Iacopo Olivo, and Francesco Pinci, all MS ’19
Mobility Hackathon Chicago: The Roiti (team of five MS ’19 students)













            Research Experiences for Undergraduates
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Research experiences for undergraduates—called REUs for short—offer undergraduate students the opportunity to complete career-building research projects over the summer. REUs are competitive (with students chosen for the research positions by application) and often are held at universities other than your home institution. Most REUs are sponsored with funding from the National Science Foundation and typically come with a stipend that you can use to cover living expenses and other costs. Other REUs are offered by various government agencies and non-profits.
REUs make excellent résumé entries and offer valuable hands-on experience that you can talk about in job interviews. If you have your eye on a master’s degree or PhD after graduation, REUs provide a head start on building your research experience and could give you insight on what you might like to pursue in graduate school.
Think of REUs as a great way to get research experience while trying out living in a different place.



      Search REUs on the NSF site
    



      U.S. Department of Homeland Security REU
    



      Computing Research Association DREU
    










Events


Back to main content









CS calendar 

Lectures and Seminars 

Student Opportunities 













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












