 












                            Fixing online privacy | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Fixing online privacy


Andrea Poet
|
Posted on October 19, 2022








            Fixing online privacy
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Buying and selling your online data is a multibillion-dollar business. Private companies surveil the websites you visit, the products you buy, public records, and many other things. They construct a digital profile of you, but how is this information ultimately used? And why can’t we control our data?
Robert Sloan, professor and department head of UIC’s computer science department, says there is a breakdown in informational privacy. He and Richard Warner, a professor and faculty director of the Center for Law and Computers at Chicago-Kent College of Law, have written the book, “The Privacy Fix: How to Preserve Privacy in the Onslaught of Surveillance,” published in late 2021 by Cambridge Press. The book explores the intersection of contemporary law, public policy, and computer science.
“An essential aspect of privacy consists of people’s trust in each other to respect your expectation about the selective flow of information,” Sloan said in an interview.
In The Privacy Fix, the authors detail how commonplace surveillance changes the way people relate to businesses, governments, and one another. Surveillance systems tend to expand, covering more people, and more of their lives. This surveillance capitalism system uses our lives as free raw material to construct behavioral data and artificial intelligence models.
“There has been a breakdown of privacy, and it’s been exacerbated by increasing reliance on algorithms to apportion rewards and penalties on the public,” Sloan said.
Examples may include bankruptcy, which can hinder the ability to obtain credit at a reasonable rate, or even at all. But the cause of the bankruptcy isn’t considered in the behavioral model: was it due to a child’s illness, or to spending beyond your means?
The ability of businesses to create a more complete picture of you can actively work against you, or provide rewards that were simply given to you based on certain aspects of your online data. These variables can include things such as if you live in a high- or low-crime area, how good the schools are near to your home, your gender, or your race. If a model has trained on data showing these things to be either beneficial or detrimental, you can be affected by things largely out of your control.
Sloan and Warner suggest a number of ways to level the playing field, relying on a regulatory body similar to the Federal Trade Commission in the U.S. They include methods to evaluate AI systems, a broad investigative power to examine unfairness, access to expertise, and market freedom to allocate benefits where they are lacking over many people.
“We need to create new norms,” Sloan said. “People can disagree on the fix, but AI can generate an unfair tilt of the playing field.”
The book can be obtained from Cambridge Press or through other retailers.















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












