 












                            Excellence in Teaching: Jakob Eriksson | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 











Excellence in Teaching: Jakob Eriksson


Posted on October 14, 2022








            Excellence in Teaching: Jakob Eriksson
          Heading link



 
Copy link




Each year, UIC honors some of its most dedicated and outstanding teachers with the Award for Excellence in Teaching. The winners, who receive a $5,000 salary increase, are selected by past recipients of the award from nominations made by departments and colleges.
Jakob Eriksson
Associate Professor of Computer Science
Years at UIC: 13
What does it mean to win an Excellence in Teaching Award?
Although I am a tenure-track faculty member, which means my research duties are officially at least as large as my teaching duties, I’ve always felt that teaching is the most important thing we do. The award means a great deal to me, as it in a way validates the effort I’ve put into teaching over the years.
What do you teach?
I teach a variety of courses relating to computer systems in the department of computer science. More specifically, my courses focus on understanding how various aspects of how computers work, in great detail. For example, what exactly happens when you press “save” in a text editor? How does the application learn that you pressed the button? What specifically does it mean the text to be “saved?” Given a file name, how specifically does one find the saved text later? Given a name like “www.google.com” what are all the steps and bits and pieces involved in bringing up the webpage on your screen?
How do you engage students in your courses?
My focus has always been on learning by doing (in-depth, engaging homework) accompanied by live demonstration. Often, I will spend half the lecture demonstrating how to write a program to do a particular task, how to identify and fix a problem, etc. I never used slides. Instead, my lectures are inspired by old-school math teachers, who will prove a theorem, ideally without notes, using just chalk and a blackboard. Only my tools of choice are a text editor, a Unix command line and a web browser.
What do you enjoy most about teaching at UIC?
While I enjoy the act of teaching itself, to me the best part is the confidence it gives me that I have made a real contribution. So much of research is tentative — one can easily spend an entire career publishing papers on research that in the end turns out to be futile. It is delayed gratification in the extreme. Teaching is a great hedge against these high-risk bets. Teach a good class, and you know almost instantly (a single semester) that you’ve made a lasting contribution that you can be proud of, no matter how the research turns out in the end.
What are your research interests?
My research revolves around topics closely related to my teaching, although the focus is of course much more narrow.
I’m broadly interested in making computer systems more efficient: executing programs at the same speed, using less resources, or faster using the same resources, and making it easier to write efficient (and correct) computer programs.
What is your advice to students considering a teaching career?
Try it first, and as soon as you can. Find opportunities to get in front of the classroom, and create your own lectures as well as assignments. Serving as a teaching assistant is a great first step. If you ask, most instructors will be happy to give you some time in the classroom — leading a discussion or giving a guest lecture.
This story was written by UIC News staff, and first appeared on UIC Today 10/11/2022.
















 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












