 












                            CS Advising | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Computer Science


Undergraduate


CS Advising






CS Advising





            Computer Science Advising Team
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            EJ Baker
                    

                Advisees: CS majors with last names A-Ch
            












                            Riley Carroll
                    

                Advisees: CS majors with last names Ci-H
            












                            Melissa Bryant
                    

                Advisees: CS majors with last names L-M
            












                            Bryant Hill
                    

                Advisees: CS majors with last names N-R
            












                            Akangkha Khan
                    

                CS majors with last names (I - K & W - Z) + All CS + Design Majors
            












                            Lahney Vilayhong
                    

                CS majors with last names (S – V)
            












                            Santhi Nannapaneni
                    

                All Data Science Majors
            










            intro tiles
          Heading link



 
Copy link





Who is my advisor?

See the notations below each advisor’s photo above to find yours.



Is advising required?

All COE/CS students must be advised each semester (fall and spring) to remove the advising hold and register.



How do I schedule advising?

All advising appointments are scheduled through iAdvise. See the section below for specific instructions.









            other info
          Heading link



 
Copy link




All students must submit the CS Advising Form each semester to remove your advising hold for registration at: https://go.uic.edu/csAdvisingForm
One-on-one appointments are required if: you are graduating next semester, this is your first semester at UIC, or if you are on probation. If you are not in this category you must attend a CS Workshop at least once per year, or attend an optional advising appointment. See the “Advising Requirements Flowchart” in the attachments below
Check the CS Workshop descriptions and calendar here: https://go.uic.edu/CSWSRSVP







            Scheduling advising through iAdvise
          Heading link



 
Copy link



All advising appointments are now scheduled through iAdvise.
Advising holds will only be removed with a scheduled advising appointment. There are no advising hold removals via walk-ins.
Look for an email from your advisor referring to “Mandatory Advising” to see when you are scheduled to make an appointment. All emails are sent to your UIC email address.
Note: Don’t miss emails from your advisor! Add a filter to approve emails sent from your advisor’s name so you don’t miss important messages.
Here are instructions for how to schedule your advising appointment in iAdvise:

Log into my.uic.edu
At the top of the page, select the Advising tab
Select iAdvise (if the iAdvise icon is not on your page, simply type iAdvise into the search bar)
Select ENGR Advising
Click the Engineering College Advising link on the side
Select your advisor’s name
Find a time that works!







            important points
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Mode 
Per student preference, most appointments are via Zoom.  However, in-person will be accommodated.







Don't Forget 
No advising form = Advising hold not removed = You cannot register










            Spring 2023 registration dates
          Heading link



 
Copy link




Seniors: November 2-4, 2022
Juniors: November 7-8, 2022
Sophomores: November 9-11, 2022
Freshmen: November 14-16, 2022

Please note: These are estimates of when your registration may start. Refer to your Time Ticket (found in your my.uic.edu portal) for the exact date and time when your registration begins.






            CS advising FAQs
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Please note: Most of the advising continues to be conducted via Zoom per majority student preferences.  However, if a student prefers in-person advising, it will be accommodated.  Reach out to your advisor via email for in-person advising.





                            What are DARs and how can I view mine?
                    








            answer
          

DARs (Degree Audit Reports) can be accessed through the U.Achieve link of your MyUIC portal. DARs are a tool used to keep track of academic progress toward the completion of your degree. It includes all degree requirements for your specific major, noting which classes you have completed and which classes you still need to take.
(Note: If you notice that a course is listed incorrectly or under “not used toward degree,” contact your advisor for assistance.)







                            What are free electives?
                    








            answer
          

Free electives are classes of your choosing that count toward your graduation (with some exceptions). They may be technical or nontechnical, but remedial* or duplicative courses are not allowed. A maximum of 2 semester hours of free elective credit in kinesiology are allowed. Speak to your CS advisor for additional information.
*A remedial class is any class below the first required class for your CS degree.







                            How do I drop a class after the add/drop period?
                    








            answer
          

To drop a class after the add/drop period is over, you must fill out the online Late Drop Petition found on the College of Engineering website. If you drop a course at this point, a W (withdrawal) will ALWAYS appear on your transcript. Every student is allowed four Ws during their time at UIC. Consult an advisor before dropping a course.







                            What do I go to the CS student affairs office for?
                    








            answer
          

You can visit the office for any CS-related issue, such as CS class registration, petitions, curriculum, and grievances. Various student forms and petitions related to your academics are available there as well. The office welcomes all students for any issues, and if they are not able to help, they will point you in the right direction. Office hours are Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Note: The CS student affairs team is working remotely right now. If you have a question, email cs-ugrad@uic.edu instead of coming in to the office.







                            How do I declare a minor and/or a CS concentration?
                    








            answer
          

You must visit the department you are planning to minor in (for example, if you want to pursue a math minor, you must visit the math department). You also must declare your minor/concentration with the College of Engineering. To do so, complete the Minor/Concentration form found on the COE student resources page.







                            If I want to take summer classes at a community college, what should I do?
                    








            answer
          

Complete the Approval to take course outside of UIC petition, found on the COE student resources page. This will prompt the College of Engineering to check if the class will transfer to UIC or be denied. (Note: you may not be eligible to transfer credits based on the number of credit hours completed.)







                            I decided to change my major to something other than CS. What do I do?
                    








            answer
          

You should visit the department you wish to major in to initiate the change of major and to set up an appointment with the person who will be your academic advisor in your new department.
Usually, the change in major is effective the following semester.
Students changing majors outside of engineering should first attend an ICT session.
(Note: Until the change is official, you will still need to meet with your CS advisor).












            Document Downloads
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Use the links below to download PDF documents related to the CS advising process.



      CS-DS new student FAQ
    



      SAP (Satisfactory Academic Progress) fact sheet
    



      SAP (Satisfactory Academic Progress) appeal form
    



      CS Courses Flowchart
    



      Supplemental Science Elective List
    



      Advising Requirements Flowchart
    










Undergraduate


Back to main content









Admissions 

Accreditation 

Advising 

Courses 

Majors 


Computer Science Major 

Computer Science + Design Major 

Data Science Major 



Minor 

Internships and Jobs 

Student Groups 

Student Resources 

Women in CS 













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












