 












                            Chancellor’s Committee on the Status of Persons with Disabilities | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Chancellor’s Committee on the Status of Persons with Disabilities

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  CCSPD Subcommittees
                









        2022-2023 Members
      




        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CCSPD Town Hall: East Campus Quad Renovations
                









        Meetings and Minutes
      




        Resources
      


Expand Resources menu











                  Reporting of Accessibility Issues
                




                  Resources for Online Learning
                




                  Campus Partners COVID-19 Resources
                




                  UIC Disability Climate Survey
                




                  Annual Reports
                









        Contact Us
      



Eyebrow menu


Office of the Chancellor


Office for Diversity


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Chancellor’s Committee on the Status of Persons with Disabilities
              

















People Icon


 
Campus Partners COVID-19 Resources






User icon






UIC Today COVID-19 Resources











The Chancellor’s Committee on the Status of Persons with Disabilities (CCSPD) is an advisory body dedicated to promoting the academic, professional, cultural and social welfare of persons with disabilities as well as providing leadership on the history, needs and resources of said population at the University of Illinois at Chicago. To do this, the various subcommittees of the CCSPD focus on a variety of facets of UIC life such as representation, climate, policies, services, and practices that affect faculty, staff and students with disabilities. The CCSPD makes recommendations to the chancellor addressing these issues as well as developing, initiating and managing programs that further address the comprehensive concerns of persons with disabilities. The CCSPD is enthusiastic about working collaboratively with diverse communities on campus and building relationships with off-campus community organizations that advocate for persons with disabilities in order to help develop and maintain a supportive environment for all members of the university’s diverse population. This mission is motivated by the belief that people with disabilities are assets to the university, not liabilities.








            News and Events
          Heading link



 
Copy link



            News and Events provides details on relevant CCSPD news and events.
          



Reporting of Accessibility Issues

In an effort to make sure issues pertaining to accessibility are regularly reported, CCSPD has moved the Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues form to a more prominent location on the website. This form can be found under the Resources tab, as well as this section of the website. Reporting of Accessibility Issues 
 



Upcoming UIC Community Events

Currently CCSPD is highlighting the upcoming events of our campus partner the Disability Cultural Center. To learn more about the DCC’s upcoming events, visit the DCC Events page.


















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 jmjacksn@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












