 












                            IDHD | University of Illinois Chicago
                    

























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































IDHD

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  National Network
                




                  State Network
                









        Services
      




        Training
      


Expand Training menu











                  Interdisciplinary Academic Programs
                




                  Continuing Education
                




                  Webinars
                




                  Calendar
                









        Research
      




        Resources
      


Expand Resources menu











                  Accessible Briefs
                




                  Articles
                




                  Webinar Archive
                




                  Book Publications
                




                  COVID-19 Resources
                









        Contact Us
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC AHS


UIC DHD


UIC menu


UI Health


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                IDHD
              


                                UI Health is UIC’s academic health enterprise
              
















People Icon


 
Facebook






Speech bubble icon






Twitter






User icon






Instagram






Calendar icon






Calendar











Please check out our list of COVID-19 and vaccination resources for people with disabilities, their families, service providers and the workforce that supports them.
 
University Center for Excellence in Developmental Disabilities Education, Research and Service for the State of Illinois
The Institute on Disability and Human Development (IDHD) is the University Center for Excellence in Developmental Disabilities Education, Research and Service (UCEDD) for the State of Illinois. Our mission is to promote the independence, productivity and inclusion of people with disabilities in all aspects of society.
We conduct research and disseminate information about disability to academicians, policymakers, businesses, government agencies, service providers and the general public. We also provide clinical and community services and offer interdisciplinary pre-service training.













            2021 Annual Report
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The DHD/IDHD Annual Report gives insight into our international alumni working in the field, new academic program development, and updates on our service programs.  This year’s highlights include two new certificates, the ADA Center and LEND Program refunding, and several new funded initiatives.  The report presents the latest research findings and publications.
See our past reports: 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017.


      Read our 2021 Annual Report
    








Check out a webinar about
the IDHD UCEDD












            We serve as a bridge between UIC and the community in our state and beyond
          Heading link



 
Copy link



            All UCEDDs are affiliated with a major research university and serve as a bridge between the university and community in the areas of education, research, community service and information relative to the needs of the disability community. 

We are unique as we are the only UCEDD that is also an academic department. We are the research and public service arm of the Department of Disability and Human Development (DHD) in the UIC College of Applied Health Sciences.
          






            Links to important content
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Learn about DHD
                    









                            Connect with the UCEDD network
                    

















            Pride Points
          Heading link



 
Copy link








67 
We’re part of a national network of 67 UCEDDs (there’s at least one in every U.S. state and territory)







Values 
We emphasize the values of cultural diversity, consumer choice, and self-determination across the lifespan in all of our activities












            A national leader in disability education, research and service
          Heading link



 
Copy link









            Academic training
          
Interdisciplinary preservice training offered through the UIC Department of Disability and Human Development academic programs, internships and the Illinois LEND program






            Community service
          
Model services, community training and technical assistance based on the latest in research and best practices






            Research
          
Nationally recognized disability research programs translating research into policy and practice






            Information dissemination
          
Sharing information with academicians, policymakers, businesses, government agencies, service providers, and the general public to increase knowledge and awareness of disability issues











            Our collective strength
          Heading link



 
Copy link



            We belong to a national network that allows us to keep up-to-date with the latest in policies, practice, and research and to advocate nationally. Further, we are part of the Illinois Developmental Disabilities Network, which helps make sure that we can have the greatest impact for our community in the state.
          





              National network
            




              State network
            





















 























UI Health































            UIC's seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise.
        



Contact
 Institute on Disability and Human Development
1640 W. Roosevelt Road, MC 626 Chicago, IL 60608
Phone: (312) 413-1647
Fax: (312) 413-1630
theller@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts





Facebook













Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube















			The UIC College of Applied Health Sciences (AHS) is the home college to IDHD in the Department of Disability and Human Development.
		





UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













