











UIC Specialized Care for Children - We partner with Illinois families and communities to help children and youth with special healthcare needs connect to services and resources.

















































 




















Contact Us





 




Menu





We partner with Illinois families and communities to help children and youth with special healthcare needs connect to services and resources.

Skip to content
Home
Who We Are

Executive Director’s Greeting
About Us
History
Annual Report
News
Events
The Family Voice

Family Stories
Family Advisory Council
Family Surveys


Medical Advisory Board
Employment Opportunities

Join Our Team




How We Help

How We Help

Accessing diagnostic tests
Finding specialized medical care
Using insurance & All Kids / Medicaid
Finding resources & information
Developing a care coordination plan
Communicating with doctors, specialists & schools
Preparing for transition
Paying for certain medical expenses


Does It Cost Money?
Is My Child Eligible?
Programs

Core Program
Home Care Program
Interim Relief Program


How To Apply
Refer A Family


Find An Office

Find An Office

Champaign
Chicago
Chicago Home Care
Lombard
Marion
Mokena
Olney
Peoria
Rockford
Springfield Administrative Office
Springfield
St. Clair


Contact Us
Request a Callback


Browse Resources

Resource Directory

COVID-19 Resources and Supports for Families


Transition Tools
Home Care Information Hub

Home Care Nursing Information for Families
Waiver Services for Home Care Families
Non-Waiver Services for Home Care Families


Parent-to-Parent Support
Brochures and Pamphlets

Request Brochures and Pamphlets


Forms
Glossary


For Providers

How We Help Providers
Provider Application
Nursing Agency Application
Reimbursement Information
Explanation of Provider Payments
Provider Forms
Home Care Information and Resources for Providers

Home Care Provider Notices
Home Care Rate Table


Tools and Resources
Provider Portal
Refer A Family





Contact Us




 








We’re here to help. We partner with Illinois families and communities to help children and youth with special healthcare needs connect to services and resources.

Is my child eligible?Apply Now 



 











How we help.
How we help you and your child depends on your specific preferences and needs.  Our Care Coordinators can support you in the following areas:
Accessing diagnostic testsFinding specialized medical careUsing insurance & All Kids / MedicaidFinding resources & informationDeveloping a care coordination planCommunicating with doctors, specialists & schoolsPreparing for transitionPaying for certain medical expensesLearn More » 





 

Who we help.
We serve thousands of families in all counties across the State of Illinois.


					(The Division of Specialized Care for Children) was one of the first organizations to step into our lives. They were some of the first social workers who came into our home and really began helping us to navigate our new lives with a medically complex child.					
— Erica Stearns, mother of Margot and Caratacus
Read family stories »











 
Sensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across IllinoisSensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across IllinoisRead more

Read more

Events feature sensitive Santa, holiday lights, craft activities and more!
Are you looking for sensory-friendly events that the whole family can enjoy this holiday season?
There are a number of sensitive Santa opportunities,...
Read more ▶︎
Share Your Feedback on the Nursing Allocation ProcessShare Your Feedback on the Nursing Allocation ProcessRead more

Read more

Help our Family Advisory Council recommend changes that can benefit Home Care Program participants and their families.
The Division of Specialized Care for Children (DSCC) helps coordinate and monitor in-home nursing for families thro...
Read more ▶︎
Medicaid Members – Update Your AddressMedicaid Members – Update Your AddressRead more

Read more

Don't risk missing important paperwork and losing Medicaid coverage
Do you get health insurance through Medicaid? 
Be sure your address is up-to-date so you don't risk losing coverage.
The Illinois Department of He...
Read more ▶︎
 








 
Sensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across IllinoisSensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across IllinoisShare Your Feedback on the Nursing Allocation ProcessShare Your Feedback on the Nursing Allocation ProcessMedicaid Members – Update Your AddressMedicaid Members – Update Your Address 









News
Sensory-Friendly Holiday Events Happening Across IllinoisNovember 22, 2022Events feature sensitive Santa, holiday lights, craft activities and more! Are you looking for sensory-friendly events that the whole family can enjoy this holiday season?...Resources for Voters with DisabilitiesNovember 1, 2022Accessible guides and information on your rights and options as a voter with a disability Election Day will be here soon. Voting is a meaningful...Share Your Feedback on the Nursing Allocation ProcessOctober 6, 2022Help our Family Advisory Council recommend changes that can benefit Home Care Program participants and their families. The Division of Specialized Care for Children (DSCC)... 
More news »



Events
Free Thanksgiving Meals in Richland CountyNovember 24, 2022  Free meal on Thanksgiving Day for residents of Richland County Outreach Mission Meals at Immanuel United Methodist Church in Olney is providing free Thanksgiving...Virtual Parent Meet-Up - "Language Acquisition and Access"November 29, 2022  A free, virtual parent meet-up for caregivers and parents of children who are deaf, deafblind or hard of hearing Join the Chicago Hearing Society...Webinar - Support Our Siblings (S.O.S.)November 29, 2022  A free webinar for parents, caregivers and individuals who want to understand the "why" and "how' of offering ongoing support to siblings of people... 
More events »









Call us
(800) 322-3722
or
Send us an email ›





We’re here to help.
The University of Illinois Chicago’s Division of Specialized Care for Children provides FREE care coordination for families of children with special healthcare needs.

 
Visit Us on Facebook

 



Contact Us.P:(800) 322-3722F:(217) 558-0773Hours: M-F, 8:00am-4:30pmRequest a Callback
Send us an email
 
Get our newsletter.









First Name Last Name Email*

EmailThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
  












 



USE OF THIS SITE SIGNIFIES YOUR AGREEMENT TO THE TERMS OF USE.
© Copyright 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois





















