 















                            Assistive Technology | Disability Resource Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Disability Resource Center

Main Menu




        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Register with DRC
                




                  How To Access Copies of LOA and Documentation In Accommodate
                




                  How To Schedule Accommodated Tests With DRC
                




                  Peer Note Taker Request Form
                




                  ASL and CART Captioning Request Form
                




                  Alternate Format Request Form
                









        Guide to Accommodations
      


Expand Guide to Accommodations menu











                  UIC Student Accommodation Policy
                




                  What Are Accommodations?
                




                  Testing Accommodations
                




                  Mobility and Physical Access
                




                  Alternate Format
                




                  Assistive Technology
                




                  ASL and CART
                




                  Housing and Meal Plans
                




                  Attendance/Absence Accommodations
                




                  Occasional Deadline Flexibility
                









        Faculty
      


Expand Faculty menu











                  DRC Referral Materials
                




                  When You Receive an LOA…
                




                  Accessible Online Teaching and Accommodations Guide
                




                  DRC Exam Proctoring Form for Instructors
                









        Report an Issue
      


Expand Report an Issue menu











                  Accommodations Complaint Process
                




                  Online Reporting of UIC Accessibility Issues
                









        More Resources
      


Expand More Resources menu











                  Resources, Partners, & Online Learning Guides
                




                  Captions for Online Classes and Events Guide
                




                  UIC Accessible Online Events Guide
                




                  Presentations for Download
                








Eyebrow menu


About


DRC Staff


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Disability Resource Center
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Disability Resource Center


Accommodations


Assistive Technology






Assistive Technology






            AT
          Heading link



 
Copy link



What is assistive technology?
Assistive technology refers to any “product, device, or equipment, whether acquired commercially, modified or customized, that is used to maintain, increase, or improve the functional capabilities of individuals with disabilities.”
The DRC works closely with students, faculty, and campus departments to promote awareness of and familiarity with available assistive technology.
Assistive Technology Training and Technical Support
The DRC researches the latest assistive technologies and provides training and support on technologies that help provide access to computing for people with disabilities. One-on-one training on many state of the art technologies is available. Many assistive technology products are available to be loaned out, as well as making arrangements for assistive technology to be made available in areas where the student is work.
Examples of software and hardware available to eligible students include the following:






            Available Assistive Technology
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Note Taking Technology
                    








            Sonocent Audio Note Taker
          

What is Sonocent?
Sonocent is a notetaking software that allows students to record lectures on a laptop or mobile device, annotate or add footnotes, highlight information, and import audio presentations, slides, or diagrams from lectures.
Additional help, information, and tutorials with Sonocent please visit the following links:
Getting Started with Sonocent
Capturing Audio with Sonocent
Annotating Notes with Sonocent
Editing and Reviewing Notes with Sonocent
Engaging and Using Notes with Sonocent






            Livescribe Echo Smart Pen
          

What is the ECHO Livescribe Smartpen?
The Livescribe Echo Smartpen is a ballpoint pen and voice recorder combination.  The Echo is capable of converting written notes into a digital recordings that are able to be played back to you, and well as a recorder that can record classroom lectures, meetings, and study sessions.
Additional help, information, and tutorials with ECHO Livescribe Smartpen please visit the following links:
Getting Started with ECHO Livescribe Smartpen
How to use ECHO Livescribe Smartpen as a Voice Recorder
Creating a Interactive Study Guide with ECHO Livescribe Smartpen
Creating a Audio Study Guide with ECHO Livescribe Smartpen
How to use ECHO Livescribe Desktop Software






            Moleskin Smartpen
          

What is the Moleskine Smart Pen?
The Moleskine Smartpen is a pen that allows students to seamlessly transfer what’s written on the notebook page to your device, digitizing analog notes & allowing you to notate, share, search, edit, & organize your vision. Android, Apple, Mac, and PC compatible.  N-coded technology enables the Pen+ to transfer your notes from page to device screen in real-time.  Record audio to sync with your notes, your ideas & ensure that nothing gets lost in translation. Explain, clarify, detail.  Notes are able to saved as PDF’s.  Everything you write is stored in the pen until you transfer it to the M+ Notes app.
How to set up the Moleskine Smartpen
Using the Moleskine Notes App
What can the Moleskine Smart Writing System Do
Online/Offline Note Taking
Transforming Handwriting into Digital Text
How to Share your Content
Using Tags and Keyword Searches
Archiving and Backing Up
Editing your Notes
Creating a New Digital Notebook






            Livescribe Aegir Smartpen
          

Livescribe Aegir Smartpen – What is the Livescribe Aegir Smartpen?
The new Livescribe Aegir Smartpen is an industry-leading aid that facilitates faster and easier notetaking.  Enabling users to capture, search and share handwritten notes on digital devices, the latest smartpen from Livescribe offers multiple accessibility features and benefits for disabled people.  The stylish Aegir Smartpen comes with an ink cartridge, a lined notepad, quick start guide, and micro-USB charging cable.  Paired with the Livescribe+ mobile app, notes become much more useful when you can organize, tag, search and convert to text using the Aegir Smartpen.  The smartpen itself is comparable in size and weight to a standard ballpoint.  It glides smoothly and has a comfortable, easy-to-grip ergonomic design.  As it’s so light and easy to use, there is no need to adjust your writing style, and it takes little time to get used to the pen.  The Aegir has a capacity to load up to 1,200 A4 pages of data, and the battery lasts for an impressive 14 hours.  The software is exceptionally capable of reading handwriting and can recognize 22 different languages.  With an expert combination of functionality and aesthetic appeal, the Aegir Smartpen is versatile, adaptable, and a pleasure to use.
Getting Started with the Aegir Smartpen
Aegir Smartpen Settings – Smartpen Status, Name, and Sound Notifications
Converting handwriting into text with the Aegir Smartpen
Pencast 101 – How to pencast with the Aegir Smartpen
Aegir smartpen Ink Catridge Replacement
Livescribe+ Desktop App Quick Start Guide







                            Text To Speech Technology
                    








            Kurzweil 3000
          

What is Kurzweil 3000?
Kurzweil 3000 is an assistive technology, text to speech, learning tool that supports the concept of Universal Design for Learning with a suite of powerful reading, writing, test-taking, and study skill tools that makes curricula accessible to all students. It is particularly appropriate for students with learning disabilities such as dyslexia, dysgraphia, those who require reading intervention, students struggling with reading comprehension and English Language Learners (ELL).
Additional help, information, and tutorials with Kurzweil 3000 please visit the following links:
Overview of Kurzweil 3000
Features of Kurzweil 3000
How to Open and Load Content with Kurzweil 3000
How to use Text-To-Speech with Kurzweil 3000
How to use Kurzweil 3000 with Web Pages







                            Speech to Text Technology
                    








            Microsoft Office Dictation
          

Microsoft Office Dictation – What is Microsoft Office Dictation?
Dictation lets you use speech-to-text to author content in Office with a microphone and reliable internet connection. It’s a quick and easy way to get your thoughts out, create drafts or outlines, and capture notes.
How to use Microsoft Dictation
How to use Voice Commands with Microsoft Dictation
How to use Microsoft Dictation on the web






            Voice Typing In Google Docs
          

What is Voice Typing on Google Docs?
Google Voice Typing is a free dictation tool for Google Docs and Google Slides, Google’s online word processor and presentation apps. To use it, you must be connected to the internet with the Google Chrome Browser on Windows, MacOS or Chromebook devices. Voice Typing is also available on Google Android devices.
How to use Voice Typing on Google Docs
Voice Commands for Voice Typing on Google Docs






            Dragon Speech To Text
          

What is Dragon Speech to Text Software?
Nuance Dragon software is speech recognition technology that converts the spoken word into written text.  Currently available on Windows and is compatible with Windows Office Software.  Dragon is for anyone needs assistance with writing long sentences and being able to fully dictate their thoughts into written form.
Additional help, information, and tutorials with Dragon Speech to Text Software please visit the following links:
How to Install Dragon and Customize Settings
Using Dragon with Microsoft Office Software
Using Dragon with Google Chrome
Using Dragon to Transcribe Audio Recordings






            Apple Voice Control
          

What is Apple Voice Control?
Voice Control is a accessibility feature that lets you speak commands to your Mac, iPhone, or iPad to do just about anything. From launching apps, adjusting volume, editing text, rebooting your Mac, iPhone or iPad, and many more commands, you can do it all with just your voice control. It is a new way to fully control your Mac entirely with your voice. Voice Control uses the Siri speech-recognition engine to improve on the Enhanced Dictation feature.
How to dictate with Voice Control on a Mac
How to control you Mac using Voice Control
How to create custom Voice Control Commands for your Mac






            Otter
          

What is Otter?
Otter is a speech to text software that turns your voice conversations into smart notes that you can easily search and share. You can use it to take notes in your classes, study sessions, meetings and other places you need to take notes.  Otter allows you to capture your thoughts and ideas while you’re on the go from your mobile device.  It also can transcribe your existing recordings from class. You can even snap photos (e.g. of a whiteboard, a speaker, or presentation slide at an event) during a recording and they will be inserted inline with your transcripts.
Additional help, information, and tutorials with Otter Speech to Text Software please visit the following links:
Overview of how to use Otter Software
Otter Demo and Features
How to transcribe audio/video with Otter
Using Otter with Zoom






            Dictation iO
          

What is Dictation iO?
Dictation iO is a free online speech recognition software that will help you write emails, documents and essays using your voice narration and without typing.  Dictation iO uses Google’s powerful Speech Recognition engine to transcribe your voice into text. You need Google Chrome browser on your Windows PC, Mac OS X or Linux. Dictation work inside Chrome on Android too but it is recommended to use Dictation iO desktop browser for improved productivity.
How to use Dictation iO
Dictation iO Demo







                            Screen Reader Software
                    








            JAWS
          

What is JAWS?
JAWS, Job Access With Speech, developed for computer users whose vision loss prevents them from seeing screen content or navigating with a mouse. JAWS provides speech and braille output for the most popular computer applications on your PC.  You will be able to navigate the Internet, write a document, read documents. emails, websites and apps, scan and read documents including PDF’s, fill out webforms, save time with Skim Reading and Text Analyzer, surf the net with web browsing keystrokes, read an email, and create presentations.
JAWS Basics (Part 1)
JAWS Basics (Part 2)
JAWS Basics (Part 3)
JAWS Commands
JAWS Default Settings
For additional training with JAWS, please click this link






            NVDA
          

What is NVDA?
Non Visual Desktop Access (NVDA) is a free and open source screen reader for the Microsoft Windows operating system. Providing feedback via synthetic speech and Braille, it enables blind or vision impaired people to access computers running Windows Operating System and many third party apps.  NVDA works with the lockdown browser that is used by UIC for exams.
Additional help, information, and tutorials with NVDA Software please visit the following links:
Overview of basics for using NVDA
NVDA Configurations and Settings
Accessible Testing with NVDA






            Fusion
          

What is Fusion?
Fusion is for students with any level of vision impairment.  Fusion provides the features and benefits of having both ZoomText Screen Magnifier and JAWS Screen Reader in one package. The two applications can be used together or separately to suit individual user preferences.  By blending ZoomText and JAWS together, Fusion has flexible, high-quality speech using Eloquence and Vocalizer Expressive, powerful keyboard access including navigation on the web, and a wide range of customization options.
Additional help, information, and tutorials with Fusion Software please visit the following links:
New Improvements for Fusion
New Features for Fusion
Using The Fusion Toolbar
Using Voice Assistant on Fusion
Using Fusion’s Enhancement Features







                            Magnification Technology
                    








            ZoomText
          

What is ZoomText?
ZoomText Magnifier/Reader is a fully integrated magnification and reading program tailored for low-vision users. Magnifier/Reader enlarges and enhances everything on your computer screen up to 36x, echoes your typing and essential program activity, and automatically reads documents, web pages, email.
Getting Started with ZoomText
Using ZoomText with the Web
Increasing and Decreasing Magnification in ZoomText
How to use the ZoomText Toolbar
ZoomText Default Settings
For additional training with ZoomText, please click this link












            Questions?
          Heading link



 
Copy link



For consult, training, and more information about assistive technology, students are encouraged to contact drc@uic.edu.
To schedule a full intake including information about assistive technology, check out our Registration Process.








What Are Accommodations?


Back to main content




















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1200 W. Harrison St., 1070 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2183
Fax: (312) 413-7781
drc@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












