












Photography and Videography Guidelines | UIC Today



















































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







Photography and Videography Guidelines

UIC’s Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications seeks to ensure the highest-quality photography is used in print, digital and video for all official university marketing and communications while maintaining a safe and welcoming campus environment for the UIC community and its guests.
Taking photos or videos of individuals without their consent is prohibited and is cause for immediate removal from all campus facilities, possible suspension from campus facilities and legal consequences.
No minors (under the age of 18) can be photographed unless written consent by a parent or guardian is given. This applies to visitors on campus as well.
These guidelines and restrictions apply to the University of Illinois Chicago and do not include UI Health’s hospital and clinics. For questions related to UI Health’s photography/videography policy and photos available for use, please contact UIHealthMktg@uic.edu.

Personal, Professional and Media Access
These guidelines relate to all forms of cameras and video recording devices for personal, professional and media access.

Photographers, videographers and anyone representing UIC’s marketing and communications staff must comply with anyone’s request not to be photographed.

Personal Access
Personal photography and videotaping are defined as capturing informal images of self, friends, and/or family.

Personal photography and videotaping are permitted on campus and within all facilities with the exception of any personal space including locker rooms and restrooms.
Personal photography used for commercial purposes is prohibited.
Professional Access
(Within academic space and other campus facilities)
Professional photography and videotaping are defined as images obtained and/or reproduced for academic purposes including class projects and/or official university marketing and communications.
Professional photography and videotaping are permitted on campus and inside facilities only with prior authorization from the Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications.
Contact us to request published photos or B-roll footage of the campus or campus events.
Media Access
Media access is defined as images obtained and/or reproduced for use by a media outlet. Proper usage includes published materials produced by the media outlet.
Media access is allowed in most university facilities with prior authorization from the Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications. Please contact our office to request media access.
Due to concerns for federal privacy regulations (FERPA and HIPAA) the photographer/videographer must be accompanied by a representative from the Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications.
Outdoor photography within the public domain is permitted. 
Commercial Access
Commercial access is only allowed as permitted by the University of Illinois Chicago. As per university policy, photographers, videographers, and filmmakers must obtain written permission to reproduce any image of the university, including its name, recognizable landmarks, buildings, or other representation from the Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications, University Hall, 601 S. Morgan St., 13th Floor, Chicago, IL, 60607. Please complete this online form to begin the process.
A representative of the Office of Strategic Marketing and Communication will follow up on any request. Once permission is granted and dates have been arranged, you will be provided with details about check-in, escorted visits and media passes if applicable.
All commercial shoots must provide proof of insurance in advance and pay rental fees. Commercial requests require a minimum of three-weeks-in-advance notice in order to complete all required paperwork.
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS CHICAGO RESERVES THE RIGHT TO DENY ACCESS TO ANYONE AS IT DEEMS NECESSARY.
Media Consent Forms:
UIC Media Consent Form for individuals (PDF)
UIC Media Consent Form for groups (PDF)
UIC / UI Health Reporting, Publication or Broadcast Release for patients (PDF) | Spanish version (PDF)
Public Notices:


UIC Notice of Photography Sign – 11×17 (PDF)


UIC Notice of Photography Sign – 18×24 (PDF)





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate











