












Frequently Asked Questions | UIC Today












































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







Frequently Asked Questions

Health, wellness and prevention
I am not feeling well. What should I do?
Do not come to campus if you are ill.
Isolate at home.
Report your symptoms to the appropriate UIC resource, which can be found using the reporting tool.  
If you have other/non-COVID health questions, contact your own health care provider or Student Health Services
Chicago: Student Health Services  312-996-2901Peoria: UnityPoint Clinic Family Medicine at 309-672-4977Rockford: University Medical Services at 815-395-5870 or University Family Health Center at 815-972-1000


Can I receive the COVID-19 vaccine on campus?
Getting the vaccine is quick and easy. For information about receiving the COVID-19 vaccination on campus, visit the UI Health website at vaccine.uihealth.care.

Do I have to wear a face covering?
Masks continue to be required in classrooms, lecture centers, research labs, the libraries and learning/success centers, health care settings, and on UIC shuttles and buses. Instructors/lecturers may take off their mask to lecture when greater than 6 feet from the audience/students. Masking in all other settings is strongly recommended. Masks continue to be a useful tool in the prevention of COVID-19. In settings where masking is recommended, it is a choice based on personal assessment of risk when to unmask. The use of masking is encouraged and supported and should be respected by all members of the UIC community. Wearing a KN95 or two-ply surgical mask that provides a snug fit and covers the mouth and nose without risk of slipping is now recommended. For more information on face coverings, please refer to the CDC guidance.Staff at UI Health should follow Personal protective equipment (PPE) guidelines for clinical encounters found on the hospital’s intranet: COVID-19 Resources > Resources & Documents > PPE.Scarves, bandanas and gaiters are not to be worn on the UIC campus when a mask is required, as they do not provide the same level of protection as a surgical mask or KN95 mask.

Can I get tested for COVID-19 on campus?
In order to minimize the infectious spread of COVID-19, UIC offers saliva-based testing for the campus community. 
If you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms or have been exposed to someone with COVID-19 symptoms or who has tested positive for COVID-19, please report it to UIC contact tracing via the reporting decision tool to receive advice on getting the appropriate test in the correct window.
Learn more about on-campus saliva-based COVID-19 testing.

What should I do if I have been around a person who has been diagnosed with COVID-19?
Stay home and report to UIC contact tracing for further guidance.
If you are a student or employee at UIC or UI Health, please use the online tool to report: 
COVID-19 symptoms.Having been exposed to a COVID-positive individual.Testing positive for COVID-19 anywhere but at UIC campus saliva testing, University Health Services or Student Health Services.Out of state or country travel.
Using this tool, students and employees will be asked a few questions, and will then be directed to the appropriate resource. This tool is intended to streamline and simplify COVID-related reporting. 

I have been isolating after I was diagnosed with COVID-19 or likely had COVID-19. When can I be around others?
If you tested positive at a non-UIC site, you should report your COVID-19 diagnosis to UIC contact tracing using the reporting tool as soon as possible, and they will provide the appropriate public health guidance to return to participation.  
Learn more about when you can be around others. 

I am a UIC student and I am studying/working remotely and feeling ill or I have tested positive for COVID-19. What should I do?
Do not come to campus. Students or employees at UIC or UI Health should use the online reporting tool for reporting COVID-19 symptoms, reporting exposures to a COVID-positive individual or to report a positive COVID-19 test at a location other than UIC campus saliva testing, University Health Services or Student Health Services. UIC contact tracing will reach out to you with the correct guidance.Isolate at home by staying in a separate room from other household members and use a separate bathroom, if possible. If you have to enter any shared spaces, you and others should wear a mask and physically distance, and also disinfect shared surfaces before and after use.

I am an instructor and I’ve been told by a student that they recently tested positive for COVID. What should I do?
If this student tested positive through the UIC campus saliva testing program, at Student Health Services, or University Health Services, UIC contact tracing will be in touch with the student to ascertain whether or not any UIC students or employees were exposed to the COVID-positive student while infectious. If they tested external to UIC, please inform the student they are required to report their positive test through the online reporting tool in order to initiate this process. 
If your class is in-person but the student reports to UIC contact tracing that they did not attend while infectious, you will receive an email from UIC contact tracing (uic_contact_tracing@uic.edu) informing you that while a student in your class was positive for COVID-19, there was no known exposure to you or your students in class. 
If your class is in-person and the student reports to UIC contact tracing that they did attend while infectious, you will receive an email from UIC contact tracing to investigate potential exposures in the classroom.

I am a UIC Health Sciences Colleges student currently on a clinical rotation, or have been in the past two weeks or plan to be in the next two weeks, and have been exposed to COVID-19, tested positive for COVID-19, or am feeling ill and currently work or interact closely with patients/public/colleagues for training and/or research. What should I do?
Do not come to campus if you are ill.Isolate at home.Follow UIC isolation and quarantine guidance.Report your symptoms, exposure to COVID-19, or positive test result through the online reporting tool. Contact your faculty supervisor.
If you have other/non-COVID health questions, contact your own health care provider or Student Health Services
Chicago: Student Health Services 312-996-2901Peoria: UnityPoint Clinic Family Medicine at 309-672-4977Rockford: University Medical Services at 815-395-5870 or University Family Health Center at 815-972-1000

I live in a campus residence. Do we have new guidelines for minimizing spread of COVID-19?
Learn more at our Campus Housing website.

Does CampusCare cover treatment for coronavirus/COVID-19?
CampusCare covers treatment for coronavirus/COVID-19 in the same way it does all other illnesses. If you have CampusCare you can review the plan’s summary of benefits online. 
Students who have elected CampusCare coverage and are
feeling ill or suspect that they could have COVID-19 should first call their
CampusCare primary care provider:
Chicago: University of Illinois Physician Group,
Department of Family Medicine at 312-996-2901 Peoria: UnityPoint Clinic Family Medicine at
309-672-4977Rockford: University Medical Services at
815-395-5870 or University Family Health Center at 815-972-1000
Telehealth/E-Visits:
CampusCare will cover telehealth
& e-visits with NO COPAYMENT. Students must contact their primary care
provider or in-network specialty physicians to set up telehealth & e-visits
for their health care needs.
Out of Network Care:
Please contact your primary care physician at Family Medicine for directions on all non-emergency care. Out-of-network care authorized by your primary care physician will be assessed at an in-network cost share and copayment.
COVID-19 Testing:
COVID-19 Lab Testing is covered at
100% with no copay under CampusCare when medically necessary. Medical necessity
will be determined by the CampusCare Medical Director. 
Check the CampusCare website for updates regarding COVID-19 policies.


On-campus saliva testing and contact tracing
Why is UIC performing saliva testing for COVID-19?
Throughout the pandemic, UIC has relied on regular COVID-19 saliva testing and contact tracing programs to minimize the spread of COVID-19 among our campus community. Through these measures, UIC contact tracing is rapidly alerted to anyone who tests positive for or is symptomatic for COVID-19. They can then isolate that person, and ensure anyone they exposed can enter quarantine, if warranted. This prevents the forward transmission of COVID-19 on our campus.

Who should NOT take this saliva-based test?
If you have had a positive COVID-19 test within the past 90 days. Testing positive another time within 90 days of a previous positive test does necessarily not mean that you are infectious to others again.

Who is eligible for on-campus COVID-19 saliva testing at UIC?
Throughout the pandemic, UIC has relied on regular COVID-19 saliva testing and contact tracing programs to minimize the spread of COVID-19 among our campus community. All students, faculty and staff are encouraged to utilize on-campus saliva testing at any time.
Mandatory COVID-19 testing is required for:
All unvaccinated students, faculty and staff who have a medical or religious vaccination exemption and all partially vaccinated students, faculty and staff, once per 7-day period, 48 or more hours apart.Students in performing arts and student athletes should follow testing directives from their units.
Employees and students working in clinical settings at UI Health should follow separate compliance guidance and deadlines, as communicated to them by the leadership of UI Health. Faculty and staff who work in the hospital and also access college buildings must follow the campus processes as well as those outlined by UI Health.
Testing locations are available on the east and west sides of campus. Learn more about COVID-19 saliva testing on campus.

I have tested positive in the last 90 days; may I still be tested?
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends no additional COVID testing for 90 days after being diagnosed with COVID-19.
If you begin to experience COVID-19 symptoms, you should discuss with your personal healthcare provider, University Health Services or Student Health Services, if you should be tested within 90 days of your last positive test.

What happens if I do not have an i-card?
You must have an i-card for testing. An electronic i-card, or a UIN and other identification is not acceptable. See instructions how to get an i-card during COVID-19. 

I am a UIC student/staff/faculty. Can my spouse or family members be tested?
Due to capacity issues, saliva-based testing is only
available for current students, faculty and staff.
Visit the Illinois Department of Public Health website or the City of Chicago website to find a COVID testing site near you. Please note that different testing sites might have different requirements. We recommend calling in advance or checking online first. In addition, UI Health has established various locations throughout the area for COVID-19 evaluation and testing for people with symptoms. UI Health welcomes new and existing patients with COVID-19 symptoms regardless of insurance status. Call 866-600-2273 for an appointment and visit the UI Health COVID-19 testing website.

I am a University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign or University of Illinois Springfield student. Can I be tested at UIC?
Urbana-Champaign and Springfield undergraduate students who participate in in-person instruction or internships in Chicago may be eligible for on-campus saliva testing at the Chicago campus. Please contact covidtesting@uic.edu to determine eligibility.Faculty, staff, and graduate students from Urbana-Champaign and Springfield who are based in Chicago for work and/or research activities will continue to be eligible for testing during the spring 2022 semester.Please visit the Urbana-Champaign saliva testing webpage Springfield saliva testing webpage for additional information.

What do I need to know prior to taking the test?
Learn more about preparing for your COVID-19 saliva test.

Where are the testing locations on campus?
On-campus saliva-based COVID-19 testing locations and hours of operation are available online. Check the webpage often for up-to-date information.

How do I get my results?
Test results will be available using SHIELD Illinois’ “Point and Click” system within 48 hours. You must create an account (using Agency Code flames22) to view your results. Test results will no longer be available in UI Health MyChart.
If you have questions about your test, contact the SHIELD Illinois patient hotline at 217-265-6059.

What do I do if I receive a positive test result?
UIC students, faculty and staff who receive a positive test through on campus testing will be contacted by the university’s contact tracing team.
For additional guidance, see information for:
Household members of someone who has tested positive for COVID-19Household members of someone who has been exposed to someone who tested positive for COVID-19

What does it mean to be a close contact?
A close contact is someone who has been in close physical contact or within 6 feet for at least 15 minutes (this does not need to be 15 minutes at once, but it can be 15 minutes total over a 24-hour period, regardless of mask-wearing) of an identified case while they were infectious. After being identified as a close contact, a person may be recommended to quarantine at home for up to 10 days after their last known exposure, receive a PCR test, and monitor for any symptoms that may arise. Determinations on the length of quarantine and recommended test dates will be dependent on the type of exposure and the vaccination status of the individual.
UIC contact tracers will focus on contacting those individuals within the UIC community who may have been exposed to a positive individual. The tracing team will work closely with the Chicago Department of Public Health and other local health departments to initiate contact tracing with individuals outside of the UIC community if necessary.
UIC contact tracing will not provide the exposed individual with the name of the person who identified them as a close contact.

Why does UIC have its own contact tracing team?
To help monitor the health and safety on campus, and to assist those in our community, a UIC-specific contact tracing team has been put in place. This team has been trained using the Johns Hopkins course on contact tracing, as well as by trained public health workers on UIC-specific protocols and procedures.  

What is contact tracing?
For individuals who test positive for COVID-19:
Notify of test result.Inquire about symptoms and advise to seek medical care when appropriate.Inquire about the infectious period and possible sources of exposure.Identify contacts.Define isolation.Provide ongoing support.
For individuals exposed to someone with COVID-19:
Notify of exposure.Inquire about symptoms and advise to seek medical care when appropriate.Advise to seek testing when appropriateDefine quarantine.Provide ongoing support.
For instructors/supervisors/event sponsors who have had someone attend class/work/an event while infectious:
Case and instructor/supervisor/sponsor interviewed by contact tracing.Use these interviews and additional data to:Determine if any close contact exposures.Arrange for spaces to be disinfected, if needed.Determine if there are any mitigation breaches and share with Environmental Health and Safety Office for future prevention.Share de-identified results of the investigation with the instructor/supervisor/sponsor for dissemination to class/coworkers/attendees and provide the appropriate public health guidance to all.

If I have tested positive, how will my privacy be maintained?
Discussions with UIC contract tracers are confidential. This means that your personal and medical information will be kept private and only shared with those who may need to know, like your health care provider or local public health officials. 
Your name will not be shared with those you identify as close contacts. The UIC contract tracer will only notify people you were in close contact with that they might have been exposed to COVID-19. Close contact is defined as having physical contact or being within 6 feet for at least 15 minutes (this does not need to 15 minutes at once, but rather can be 15 minutes total over a 24-hour period), regardless of mask-wearing.
Students with medical questions may contact their personal health care provider or Student Health Services. Employees with medical questions may contact their personal health care provider or University Health Service.
Student Health Services: 312-996-2901University Health Service: 312-996-7420

How much does testing cost?
The on-campus saliva testing is free.

Can I be tested where I currently live and bring testing documents for proof of status when arriving on campus?
We encourage testing prior to arriving on campus, but you will need to be tested on campus as soon as possible upon your arrival to campus if you are coming from a location where testing is mandatory. You should report your arrival on campus from out-of-state or abroad and you will be contacted when you should receive your first and repeated testing.

What does a positive result mean?
If you have a positive test result it is almost certain that you have COVID-19. You will be contacted by UIC contact tracing and instructed to isolate to avoid spreading the virus to others. There is an extremely small chance that this test can give a positive result that is wrong (a false-positive result). UIC contact tracing will advise you on how to isolate, connect you to resources you may need to do so successfully, and determine when you are no longer spreading the virus to others and can leave isolation. Your healthcare provider will work with you to determine how best to care for you based on the test results, your medical history and your symptoms.

What does a negative result mean?
A negative test result means that the virus that causes COVID-19 was not detected in your sample. There is a chance that your negative result was incorrect (false negative). Please continue to follow campus guidelines on social distancing and wearing face coverings. If you develop COVID-19 symptoms, you should report this to UIC using the online reporting tool and also promptly contact your personal healthcare provider for further guidance.

What does an inconclusive/invalid result mean?
An invalid/inconclusive test means that your sample did not produce a test result that can be interpreted as positive or negative. It simply means that we were unable to run your test in our laboratory. Possible reasons for this include insufficient sample size, interfering substances in the sample such as mouth wash, an assay problem, etc. If the test result is invalid/inconclusive, you can wait until your next normally scheduled test to submit a sample.

I am a UIC alumni, can I be tested with saliva-based testing?
Saliva-based testing is only available for current students, faculty and staff.
Visit the Illinois Department of Public Health website or the City of Chicago website to find a COVID-19 testing site near you. Please note that different testing sites might have different requirements. We recommend calling in advance or checking online first.
In addition, UI Health has established various locations throughout the area for COVID-19 evaluation and testing for people with symptoms. UI Health welcomes new and existing patients with COVID-19 symptoms regardless of insurance status. Call 866-600-2273 for an appointment and visit the UI Health COVID-19 testing website.


COVID-19 vaccinations
Where can I get the COVID-19 vaccine? Are vaccines available on campus?
You can find COVID-19 vaccination appointments or walk-in hours at a location near you by visiting vaccines.gov.
You can also take advantage of free, convenient vaccination appointments that are available on campus. For more information about COVID-19 vaccination at UIC/UI Health or to make an appointment, visit vaccine.uihealth.care. If you have any questions about making a vaccine appointment, please email covidvaccine@uic.edu.

Is it safe to get the vaccine?
The safety of the COVID-19 vaccine is a top priority for everyone. Learn more about the safety of COVID-19 vaccines.

How effective is the vaccine? 
Learn more about vaccine effectiveness.

Can a COVID-19 vaccine make me sick with COVID-19? 
No. None of the COVID-19 vaccines contain the live virus that causes COVID-19 so a COVID-19 vaccine cannot make you sick with COVID-19.
 Facts about COVID-19 vaccines. 

Can I be allergic to the COVID-19 vaccine? 
The risk for allergic reactions is very low, but severe reactions have been reported. If you’re concerned about whether or not to get the vaccine if you have allergies, speak with your doctor.  At UI Health, we ask everyone to remain in the area for 15 minutes after receiving the vaccine to ensure they are safely monitored, should a reaction occur.  If you experience any flushing, itching, swelling, wheezing, or difficulty breathing, you should report it to the staff at the site immediately. These symptoms can indicate an allergic reaction may be occurring, and you should be evaluated immediately.  Individuals with a history of allergic reactions to different medications may be asked to remain available for a longer period of time for additional monitoring.  
Learn more about COVID-19 vaccines and allergic reactions. 

Should I get the vaccine if I’m planning to become pregnant? 
Learn about vaccination considerations for people who are pregnant or breastfeeding. 

What are the likely side effects? 
Like all medicines and vaccines, the vaccine may cause side effects, although not everyone will get them. The most likely side effects are: 
Pain at the injection site Redness, at the injection site Fever Chills Fatigue Nausea Headache Muscle aches/pain Joint pain Underarm gland swelling on the side of the vaccination 

What if I have a fever after the vaccine? 
If you develop fever within 3 days of getting the COVID-19 vaccine you should contact University Health Service at uhsclinic@uic.edu for guidance.  


Campus COVID-19 vaccination requirements
Where can I get the COVID-19 vaccine and booster? Are vaccines available on campus?
You can find COVID-19 vaccination appointments or walk-in hours at a location near you by visiting vaccines.gov.
You can also take advantage of free, convenient vaccination appointments that are available on campus. For more information about COVID-19 vaccination at UIC/UI Health or to make an appointment, visit vaccine.uihealth.care. If you have any questions about making a vaccine appointment, please email covidvaccine@uic.edu.

Will COVID-19 vaccination be required for students to attend on-campus activities at UIC?
Yes. All students who plan to be on campus are required to receive the COVID-19 vaccine if they are able to do so.

Will COVID-19 vaccination be required for faculty and staff?
Yes. Faculty and staff are required to receive the COVID-19 vaccine if they are able to do so.

What types of vaccines are available? 
To make a COVID-19 vaccination appointment at UIC/UI Health, visit vaccine.uihealth.care. If you have any questions about specific vaccine availability on campus, please email covidvaccine@uic.edu.
UIC will accept all vaccines currently authorized for emergency use by either the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the World Health Organization (WHO). For a list of approved vaccines, visit the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or the World Health Organization.
Additional information for those who were fully or partially vaccinated abroad is available below in the section “International students, scholars and employees.”

How much does the COVID-19 vaccination cost? 
COVID-19 vaccination is free.

What happens if I lost my vaccination card? 
Please contact your personal health care provider to obtain your vaccination documentation.
If you received your vaccination at a UI Health location, you may request your vaccination card update through the Health Information Management office. You may also make this request via email to: recordrequest@uic.edu or by calling 312-996-3350. 
If you are looking for your vaccination card for your booster shot appointment, please note that an updated vaccination card can be provided when you obtain your booster. 

I want to request an exemption from getting the vaccine. What is the exemption process? 
New students should follow procedures for vaccination submission or exemption requests detailed by the Registrar. 
Clinical rotations and other off-site experiences may have additional requirements that are not met by this exemption process.

I received a medical or religious exemption from the campus COVID-19 vaccine requirement. Are there specific health and safety guidelines that I need to follow to participate in on-campus activities? 
Yes. Individuals who receive an exemption will be required to participate in on-campus COVID-19 saliva testing at least once per 7-day period, 48 hours or more apart; quarantine if exposed to someone who has tested positive for COVID-19; and continue to wear a face mask to participate in classes, activities or events on campus. Testing locations are available on the east and west sides of campus. Learn more about COVID-19 saliva testing on campus.

How frequently should unvaccinated students, faculty or staff with an exemption have saliva testing? How long with this process take? 
Unvaccinated individuals with a medical or religious exemption are required to participate in on-campus COVID-19 saliva testing at least once per 7-day period, 48 hours or more apart and continue to wear a face mask. Testing locations are available on the east and west sides of campus. Learn more about COVID-19 saliva testing on campus.

I am partially vaccinated (I have not received my final dose or it has not been 14 days since my final dose). Can I attend class, campus activities or work on campus? 
If you are partially vaccinated, you may participate in on-campus activities if you have a scheduled final vaccine dose and vaccination completion is imminent; however, you must continue to participate in on-campus COVID-19 saliva testing at least once per 7-day period, 48 hours or more apart.

I have recovered from COVID-19. Should I be vaccinated? 
The university is following guidance from the CDC that recommends individuals who previously recovered from COVID-19 should still get vaccinated after the appropriate period of time. Only those who have received monoclonal antibodies need to wait 90 days before vaccination. If you must delay vaccination, seek a medical exemption.

Who will have access to my vaccination information? 
Data related to vaccination status, and any related documents, are stored and protected in secured databases and will be used to implement health and safety measures on campus. No other health information will be collected.

I am a student, faculty or staff at one of the regional campus locations. Do I need to comply with the vaccination requirement? 
Yes. The vaccination requirement applies to students and employees at all University of Illinois campuses. You will receive additional information from the regional deans regarding the implementation of the requirement at each regional campus.

Will vendors and service providers working at UIC be required to have the COVID-19 vaccination? 
Vendors and service providers are not required to be vaccinated at this time. However, vendors and service providers who not fully vaccinated and are routinely on campus or have frequent interactions with students or staff are expected to comply with the same public health requirements as staff.  Sponsoring units are encouraged to stipulate these requirements in our service agreements and/or require these personnel to obtain UIC identification cards and participate in saliva testing programs.

Should I still get my flu shot? 
Yes, the flu shot is highly recommended for students and employees. There will be opportunities to receive the flu vaccine on campus if you receive care at UI Health or through pop-up clinics on campus. UI Health employees are required to receive the flu vaccine and will receive additional information from the hospital.


University operations
Are the campus bookstores open?
The UIC Bookstore, Medical Bookstore and the Tech Center are open.  Online orders can be placed at www.uicbookstore.org

Are events taking place on campus?
All UIC events must follow detailed guidelines and registration procedures.
For current information on student events, engagement and activities visit the Center for Student Involvement website.


Will dining services remain open?
Visit our Dining website for up-to-date information. 

Where do I find information about Technology Solutions (formerly ACCC) operational status?
Technology Solutions is committed to ensuring the UIC community is able to continue their daily work as smoothly as possible while remaining safe and healthy.
Learn more about Technology Solution’s operational levels and service impacts.
Learn more about online learning.
Contact Technology Solutions with questions.

Can I workout, swim or use the Campus Recreation centers on campus?
Learn more about Campus Recreation.


Classes, academics, and information for students
Where can I get academic guidance?
Learn more about academic guidance for the current semester.

I need technology assistance. Where can I find help?
Learn more about academic technology support for students.

Will campus bookstores remain open?
The UIC Bookstore, Medical Bookstore and the Tech Center are now open.  Online orders can be placed at www.uicbookstore.org.

Will student events and meetings continue on campus?
Read about current event guidelines and registration procedures.
For current information on student events, engagement and activities visit the Center for Student Involvement website.

Will athletic events take place on campus?
Please visit the UIC Flames website for current information.

Can I workout, swim or use the Recreation Centers on campus?
Learn more about Campus Recreation.


Applicants and prospective students
Can I still apply to UIC?
Visit UIC Admissions for the most up-to-date information on application deadlines, credential submission, the best way to contact the office, event alternatives and more.


Support services for students and employees
Need support dealing with COVID-related stress, mental health, health care needs or other issues?
If you have family or friends that are directly impacted by COVID-19 and you need support or assistance, there are a variety of resources for students and employees available on campus.

Need academic and other study help?
There are a number of academic and advising support services available to you.

Feeling isolated?
The Centers for Cultural Understanding and Social Change are coming up with all kinds of creative ways to stay connected during this time. Never visited a Center before? That is okay. They are excited to welcome you to one of their virtual communities.
The Counseling Center is meeting with students virtually and continues to offer after-hours crisis care.

Concerned about food insecurity?
The Wellness Center’s Pop-Up Pantry is open Wednesday and Thursday from 1-4 pm. Check the website for details.

Concerned about safety?
In the case of an emergency, please contact UIC Police or your local emergency services.
The Campus Advocacy Network is a confidential resource available to provide support and advocacy for students who have experienced interpersonal violence. Advocates are available to meet by phone, videoconference, and online chat.

Concerned about employment?
Career Services staff are available for virtual appointments, and they have lots of information about current short-term, long-term and fall employment opportunities.

Have other concerns?
The U & I Care Program is here for you as a resource should you require additional support.
Visit dream.uic.edu for a wide variety of information and resources for undocumented students.
Please reach out to the Office of the Dean of Students at   dos@uic.edu and their staff are happy to help you find resources.


UIC Human Resources
Where can managers and employees find the latest updates and FAQs from UIC Human Resources during COVID-19?
Thank you to all of the dedicated employees across campus who are helping to ensure that UIC fulfills its important education, research and service mission during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Learn more about frequently asked questions for managers and employees during this difficult time. 
If you have additional questions or require clarification, please contact UIC Human Resources at 312-996-0840 or uichrwelcomecenter@uic.edu.  


UI Health hospital and clinics
If I think I have been exposed to COVID-19, what should I do?
Before coming in for your visit or the emergency department, call UI Health at 866-600-CARE to consult with a healthcare professional about what you should do if you are having symptoms. 
You can call UI Health at 866-600-CARE to schedule testing. 
If you have questions about COVID-19, you can also contact the Illinois Department of Public Health hotline at 800.889.3931 or email at dph.sick@illinois.gov. 
Learn more about COVID-19, symptoms, and how to prevent spreading the virus.

Can I get screened for COVID-19?
Learn more about on campus saliva testing for COVID-19. 
UI Health has also established various locations throughout the area for COVID-19 evaluation and testing. If you are interested in being evaluated or tested for COVID-19 at one of our outpatient locations, please do the following:
Call
866.600.CARE (2273) to speak with a nurse.After
answering a series of questions about your symptoms and exposure, the nurse
will let you know if you would benefit from a visit.If
you are recommended to be evaluated or tested for COVID-19, an appointment will
be scheduled for you at either a drive-thru or evaluation clinic.
If you do not have acute emergent care needs
do not go to the Emergency Department, Urgent Care, or walk into clinic, call
first for guidance.
More
information on testing at UI Health is available online.

How can I contribute to the resource needs of our clinical enterprise?
There are many ways you can help support UIC’s clinical enterprise during the COVID-19 pandemic. Please visit our “Help During the COVID-19 Pandemic” page on the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs website for information on donating PPE, meals or financial gifts to support our students and our health system during this time. 
 

What are the symptoms of COVID-19?
Learn about COVID-19 symptoms. 
More information about testing at UI Health is available here. 
UI Health has established various locations
throughout the area for COVID-19 evaluation and testing.  If you are
interested in being evaluated or tested for COVID-19 at one of our outpatient
locations, please do the following: 
Call
866.600.CARE (2273) to speak with a nurse. After
answering a series of questions about your symptoms and exposure, the nurse
will let you know if you would benefit from a visit. If
you are recommended to be evaluated or tested for COVID-19, an appointment will
be scheduled for you at either a drive-thru or evaluation clinic. 
If you do not have acute emergent care needs do not go to the Emergency Department, Urgent Care, or walk into clinic, call first for guidance. 

How can I get tested for COVID-19 at UI Health?
UI Health has established various locations throughout the area for COVID-19 evaluation and testing.  If you are interested in being evaluated or tested for COVID-19 at one of our outpatient locations, please do the following: 
Call 866-600-CARE (2273) to speak with a nurse. After answering a series of questions about your symptoms and exposure, the nurse will let you know if you would benefit from a visit. If you are recommended to be evaluated or tested for COVID-19, an appointment will be scheduled for you at either a drive-thru or evaluation clinic. 
If you do not have acute emergent care needs do not go to the Emergency Department, Urgent Care, or walk into clinic, call first for guidance. 
More information on testing at UI Health is available online. 


Travel and study abroad
I have recently returned from an out-of-state or international trip. What should I do?
If you are a student, faculty or staff and have recently returned from out-of-state or international travel you should report travel using the reporting decision tool. UIC contact tracing will then advise you on the appropriate public health steps.

I am abroad or plan to travel soon. What should I do?
We urge everyone to be very cautious and to exercise sound judgment in deciding whether to travel internationally or domestically for personal reasons and take into account the possibility that you may face quarantine upon arrival at your destination, and/or upon your return. Before traveling, please review CDC travel advisories and restrictions. 
Learn more about CDC international travel recommendations.
Learn more about Chicago’s Emergency Travel Order.
Learn more about UIC’s COVID-19 University Travel Request Authorization Form and current guidance on travel for official university business. 

I am a UIC student currently studying abroad or planning to study abroad. What should I do?
Learn about the latest COVID-19 health and safety study broad updates and policies.
Students with questions or concerns, should contact the Study Abroad Office at 312-413-7662 or sao@uic.edu for up-to-date information.
Learn more about UIC International Travel Safety Policy


International students, scholars and employees
Where can I find the latest updates and resources for international students, scholars and employees?
For information regarding coronavirus/COVID-19 and the UIC international community, including immigration status maintenance, travel guidance, support resources and frequently asked questions (FAQs), visit the Office of International Services.

Is UIC requiring vaccination?
Yes. UIC requires students, faculty and staff who plan to be on campus to be fully vaccinated and boosted, if they are able to do so. Learn more about current COVID-19 vaccination guidelines.
UIC will accept all vaccines currently authorized for emergency use by either the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the World Health Organization (WHO).
 

Given the current vaccination requirement at UIC, is it advisable to take the vaccine in my home country or can I take it upon arriving at the university?
UIC will accept all vaccines currently authorized for emergency use by either the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the World Health Organization (WHO).
If you can complete a vaccine series for one of these approved vaccines, it is advisable to take the vaccine in your home country. Please see below if you only have time to complete one dose of a two-dose series.
If none of these approved vaccines are available to you in your home country, you will be able to receive an accepted vaccine upon arrival to Chicago.
Learn more about CDC international travel requirements.
Learn more about requirements for air travelers to the U.S.

What happens in case I’m able to take only one dose of a vaccine not available in the United States at my home country?
If there is high level of transmission in your home country and you have access to one of the vaccines currently authorized for emergency use by either the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the World Health Organization (WHO), it is recommended that you get vaccinated even if you cannot complete a series. With a two-dose series COVID-19 vaccine there is some protection with the first dose.
If you are able to get the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine as your first dose in your home country, please do so as it is then possible for you to get the second dose when you arrive in the USA.
There is not data on the efficacy of mixing vaccines, and whether you need to restart a new vaccine series for protection. There is some data around the safety of mixing some vaccines and If you are unable to complete a two-dose vaccination series, the CDC recommends you receive the full series of an FDA-approved vaccine. You can do so once you arrive in Chicago.
If you choose to wait to be vaccinated in the USA you will need to evaluate your personal risk for acquiring COVID-19 in your home country and while traveling. For example, if your home country currently has lower rates of COVID-19 cases and you are able to protect yourself through masking and social distancing you may choose to wait.
 

Can I come to the USA and take the second dose? Or will I be required to vaccinate again? Also, are there any health concerns regarding mixing vaccine types?
If you do choose to get one dose of a vaccine not available in the USA prior to departure and have to get another type of vaccine here, please know that there is good evidence that mixing vaccine types is safe. Some evidence regarding mixing the Pfizer/BioNTech and AstraZeneca vaccines were more likely to report side effects than those who received two doses of either vaccine, but all reported adverse reactions were short-lived, and there were no serious safety concerns or hospitalizations.
However, it is less clear at this time how efficacious mixing different vaccine types is. Your situation will be evaluated with the most up-to-date guidance upon arrival.
If you are unable to complete a two-dose vaccination series of a WHO-approved vaccine in your home country, the CDC recommends you receive the full series of an FDA-approved vaccine. You can do so once you arrive in Chicago.
If the first dose you get in your home country is not currently authorized for emergency use by either the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the World Health Organization (WHO), the CDC recommends you receive the full series of an FDA-approved vaccine. You can do so once you arrive in Chicago, as long as 28 days have passed since your last dose of a non-WHO/non-FDA approved vaccine.

What happens if I take both doses of a vaccine not approved in the USA?
If the vaccine is currently authorized for emergency use by either the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the World Health Organization (WHO), you will be considered fully vaccinated at UIC as long as you can provide documentation of vaccine receipt.
If the vaccine you take is not currently authorized for emergency use by either the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the World Health Organization, the CDC recommends you receive the full series of an FDA-approved vaccine. You can do so once you arrive in Chicago, as long as 28 have passed since your last dose of a non-WHO/non-FDA approved vaccine.
UIC will continue to monitor data on the effectiveness of different global vaccines against currently circulating COVID-19 strains in the US. If these strains are demonstrated to evade the protection afforded by the vaccines that you received in your home country, you may be subsequently advised to receive booster doses or other approved US vaccines that have greater efficacy against emerging vaccine-resistant strains.
 

Do I need to quarantine or are there any restrictions in place when I reach the USA/UIC (without taking the vaccine); either at the port of entry or at UIC?
Please see the CDC’s website for the most up-to-date guidance on what is required for travelers at ports of entry.
At UIC, you are required to report your travel to UIC Contact Tracing via the COVID-19 Reporting Decision Tool. UIC Contact Tracing will then guide you on all post-travel steps you need to take.

What proof of vaccination will I be required to bring in case I get vaccinated in my home country?
Student COVID-19 vaccination records must be provided prior to the beginning of the fall semester.
Vaccination records may vary by country. Further information with instructions on how to provide authorization for disclosure of vaccination records or to upload a copy of the Vaccination Record Card will be communicated soon.

By when is it advisable to reach the university to complete the quarantine period to be able to attend the orientation in-person and start in-person classes?
If arriving from a country that necessitates a quarantine upon arrival, please arrive in advance to complete all necessary testing and quarantine.
However, please note that if you test positive or develop symptoms of COVID-19 during that time, you may need to begin isolation. Isolation for COVID-19 lasts a minimum of 10 days from symptom onset or positive test. As such, you may consider arriving earlier to account for this possibility.

I have already had COVID-19, do I still need to be vaccinated?
Individuals who have been infected with COVID-19 and have recovered should still get the COVID-19 vaccine after the appropriate period of time.

What if I cannot access an approved vaccine in my home country?
If none of the approved vaccines are available to you in your home country, you will be able to receive an accepted vaccine upon arrival to Chicago.

Will my visa status affect my ability to get vaccinated in Chicago?
Immigration status does not affect your eligibility to receive a COVID-19 vaccine in the USA. The vaccine is provided by UI Health at no cost to anyone regardless of citizenship or insurance.

How can I tell which non-FDA approved vaccine will be accepted by UIC?
This information is rapidly changing; please check the World Health Organization (WHO) for the most up-to-date list of vaccines that have been approved for emergency use.
Once on the page, go to the tab ‘EUL submissions’ and click on ‘Status of COVID-19 vaccines within WHO EUL/prequalification evaluation process.’
Those vaccines that say ‘finalized’ in the column ‘Status of assessment’ are those that have been approved for emergency by the WHO.
As of 1/5/2022, this includes:
PfizerAstrazenecaCovishieldCovaxinNovavaxSinopharmSinovac

I was vaccinated in a country where the government increased the time between the first and second doses so that it is no longer in the U.S. labeling of the vaccine. Do I need to be revaccinated?
There is currently no recommendation to repeat the series if the length of time was longer than the approved time.

Will I be able to submit evidence of my COVID-19 vaccine in a language other than English?
You can submit vaccine records in another language as long as the following is clearly visible:
Product name/manufacturerLot numberDate(s) of receipt of dose

Do all new and continuing students from an international location need to report their travel in the COVID-19 Reporting Decision Tool?
Yes, it is important to report your travel to the COVID-19 Reporting Decision Tool, as travel guidance may change over time. UIC contact tracing will reach out to you after you submit to  the tool and provide you with the most up-to-date guidance. We appreciate your continued assistance in keeping our campus safe.

If I wait to receive an FDA-approved vaccine in Chicago, will I be able to participate in spring classes (either virtually or in-person with a mask) until I complete the vaccine series and am considered fully vaccinated?
Yes, you will be able to participate in classes both virtually and in-person, however, while on campus you must participate in regular saliva testing. Currently, all students and staff must continue to wear a mask when indoors.
Fully vaccinated means you have completed the vaccine series (which is either one or two doses depending on the vaccine) and at least 14 days have passed from the receipt of the last dose.





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate











