












On-campus COVID-19 saliva testing and contract testing | UIC Today












































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







On-campus COVID-19 saliva testing and contract testing

Throughout the pandemic, UIC has relied on COVID-19 saliva testing and contact tracing programs to minimize the spread of COVID-19 among our campus community. UIC now offers the SHIELD Illinois saliva-based test on campus.
SHIELD registration and obtaining saliva test results
Test results will be available using SHIELD Illinois’ “Point and Click” system within 48 hours. You must create an account (using Agency Code flames22) to view your results. Test results will no longer be available in UI Health MyChart.
If you have questions about your test, contact the SHIELD Illinois patient hotline at 217-265-6059.
Testing locations
UIC offers the SHIELD Illinois saliva-based test at Student Center East, Student Center West and the Behavioral Sciences Building, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Please arrive 15 minutes before closing. Saliva testing locations will be closed Nov. 23-27 for the Thanksgiving holiday.
Saliva testing is available at the regional campuses in Rockford and Peoria and at the Law School.
Who should test
Mandatory COVID-19 testing is required for:
All unvaccinated students, faculty and staff who have a medical or religious vaccination exemption and all partially vaccinated students, faculty and staff, once per 7-day period, 48 or more hours apart.Students in performing arts and student-athletes should follow testing directives from their units.
Surveillance testing is strongly encouraged for:
All students, faculty and staff not in mandatory testing groups. Specific units and departments will be contacted via email throughout the semester on a rotating basis to participate in saliva testing to inform current and future health and safety measures.
Before the test
Bring a valid i-card to the testing site and be sure that you’ve registered for SHIELD Illinois’ “Point and Click” system.Faculty, staff and students will be able to pick up a sample collection kit that can be used at your convenience and dropped off where it was picked up. Samples should be dropped off within 4 hours of collection. You should NOT eat, drink or put anything in your mouth one hour before taking the salvia-based test. This includes smoking, tobacco/vape, chewing gum, using mouth wash, etc.If you are under the age of 18, you must provide a signed consent form from your parent/guardian before testing.Learn more about the SHIELD Illinois saliva test.Should a student be unable to independently conduct the saliva testing due to mobility, ambulatory, or other disability, it is advised that the student contact the Disability Resource Center at drc@uic.edu or 312-996-8332 at least two days prior to the testing date.Should an employee be unable to independently conduct the saliva testing due to mobility, ambulatory, or other disability, it is advised that the employee contact the Office for Access and Equity at oaeada@uic.eduor 312-996-0512 at least two days prior to the testing date.
What to expect when taking the test
Individuals will pick up a self-collection kit at a SHIELD station that can be used at their convenience and dropped off where it was picked up. Samples should be dropped off within 4 hours of collection. The process only takes a few minutes and is painless. You do not need to test at the pick-up/drop-off location and you may test in the privacy of your own residence, office or restroom.If you test positive, you will be provided with follow-up isolation instructions and will be contacted by UIC contact tracing. Participating in contact tracing is part of UIC’s strategy to keep the campus safe.
Do NOT take the saliva test:
If you have had a positive COVID-19 test within the past 90 days. (Testing positive another time within 90 days of a prior positive test does not mean that you are infectious to others.)
Contact tracing

COVID-19 saliva testing at the University of Illinois Chicago. (Joshua Clark/University of Illinois Chicago)
The UIC contact tracing team is responsible for contacting students, faculty and staff who test positive using on-campus saliva testing, as well as those testing positive at University Health Services and Student Health Services, and those who self-report any other tests. UIC contact tracing counsels individuals on isolation, identifies and notifies their close contacts on campus, monitors both groups for COVID-19 symptoms, and connects individuals in need with campus and external resources to successfully complete isolation and the post-exposure period.
Contact tracing has shifted to increasingly email-driven operations (rather than telephone-based) to streamline operations and ensure rapid sustained service to the UIC community. Closely monitor your UIC inbox on a daily basis for any communications from contact tracing, uic_contact_tracing@uic.edu. Some individuals who test positive for COVID-19 may still receive communication by phone, 312-355-2555.
Contact tracing hours of operation are:
Tuesday through Saturday, noon-8 p.m.Although operations will be closed on Mondays, the inbox (uic_contact_tracing@uic.edu) will be monitored for questions.
Everyone who tests should update their university contact information using the following resources:
Students visit the Student Self-Service.Employees visit the Human Resources portal.
If you are a student or employee, please report COVID-19 symptoms and exposures to a COVID-positive individual using the online reporting tool.
A key component of contact tracing is to obtain a list of persons who may have been exposed to infected individuals. If an individual receives a positive test result it will be important to begin compiling a list of persons with whom they have been in direct physical or close contact, particularly if that involved close contact (within 6 feet for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period, and is regardless of mask-wearing). After assembling a list of contacts, UIC contact tracing will notify any UIC employee or student who may have been exposed to an individual diagnosed with COVID-19 through email. Every effort will be made to keep the name of the infected individual confidential. The communication will include a link to a brief survey which will provide the person with tailored testing and symptom monitoring guidance based on their responses. These responses will be closely monitored for any indication of individuals requiring additional support and guidance.
For additional information about isolation and exposure guidance, printable fact sheets are available:
If someone in your household has recently tested positive for COVID-19If someone in your household has been exposed to a person who tested positive for COVID-19
For additional information about Contact Tracing classroom procedures:
UIC classroom public health guidance for facultyUIC classroom public health guidance for supervisorsUIC classroom public health guidance for students
UIC Healthcheck and Daily Pass
The UIC Healthcheck and Daily Pass tools are no longer used on campus, effective May 9, 2022.
Cost
Testing is free to all UIC students, faculty and staff.
Eligibility
Saliva testing is available to current students, faculty and staff with a NetID and i-card.
Urbana-Champaign and Springfield undergraduate students who participate in in-person instruction or internships in Chicago may be eligible for on-campus saliva testing at the Chicago campus. Please contact covidtesting@uic.edu to determine eligibility.
Faculty, staff, and graduate students from Urbana-Champaign who are based in Chicago for work and/or research activities will continue to be eligible for testing.
Please visit the Urbana-Champaign saliva testing webpage or Springfield saliva testing webpage for additional information.



 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate











