












Communicating On Campus | UIC Today












































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







Communicating On Campus
The Public Affairs unit is the official source of news and information about the University of Illinois at Chicago and is part of the UIC Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications.
UIC is on Facebook at UIC News and UIC, on Twitter at @UIC News and @ThisIsUIC, and on YouTube at UICmedia and ThisIsUIC. A blog on science and research at UIC, UICscience, is on tumblr.
UIC Today
UIC Today provides up-to-the-minute news and information of interest to the campus community. Contact us to request published photos or B-roll footage of the campus or campus events.
Public Affairs
The Office of Public Affairs informs the public about the activities and accomplishments of UIC faculty, staff and students and the University’s contributions in teaching, research, public service and economic development. We work closely with national and local news media while ensuring that privacy and disclosure laws affecting students, patients and employees are followed. Staff are assigned to specific units on campus to serve as media liaisons to communicate with stakeholders through news releases, videos and podcasts.
Publicizing events:
Contact Public Affairs during the earliest planning stages of your event, so that external and internal publicity goals can become part of the plan. We will publicize events or activities that are newsworthy to all or most of our key audiences – current students, prospective students, alumni, Illinois citizens, elected officials, visitors, and colleagues at other institutions. News that is of interest primarily to internal audiences may be reported in UIC Today. We generally do not publicize events solely sponsored by independent student groups, to avoid confusion as to what constitutes an official event or activity of a state public university.
Publicizing research news:
If you are publishing or presenting research findings, contact Public Affairs as soon as your paper has been accepted or your presentation has been confirmed. We need time to review the findings for newsworthiness, prepare drafts, and determine how best to disseminate the information to the media in a timely manner. We will ensure that embargoes are enforced and public-release timelines are kept.





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate











