













Sending Announcements / DDDH | UIC Today





















































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







Sending Announcements / DDDH

There are multiple campus-wide options for publishing events or news at UIC. The launch of UIC Today allows the campus to move away from sending numerous emails, including daily massmail and Official announcements. Effective Sept. 18, 2017, massmail messages appear online at UIC today and are no longer be sent by email. DDDH messages continue to be sent by email. Official communications are sent from administrative offices such as the University President, Chancellor, Provost or other Vice Chancellors and may be sent by email or posted on UIC today. To submit an Announcement, Official or DDDH message, use the request form below. The UIC Calendar of Events also allows for the posting of both events and classified ads and are distributed as a daily digest to subscribers.
Announcement/Official/DDDH request form
Announcements
Announcements can be submitted by any UIC e-mail user for a fee of $125. They are restricted to events on campus or sponsored by campus units such as a lecture, workshop, civic event, campus initiative, award or research. Announcements are subject to the following guidelines:
All announcements, whether from campus units or registered student organizations, must comply with University Policy for Publishing on the Internet; with the federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003; and with the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, particularly the sections relating to prohibited political activities (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and public service announcements and other promotional material (5 ILCS 430/5-20). Any announcement that meets the CAN-SPAM Act’s definition of a commercial message must be related to University business.
Notices seeking volunteers for research studies must comply with federal guidelines and IRB-approved protocols for participant recruitment and are the sole responsibility of the investigator.
Please submit announcement requests by noon one-and-a-half business days prior to the desired delivery date. Due to heavy volume, please do not submit more than three days prior to desired date of receipt.

Messages must be submitted using the online form. HTML announcements will not be accepted. If promoting a website, be sure to include the entire web address, including the http://
If your message links to a PDF file, the PDF should be created in an accessible manner and be noted as an accessible PDF file. Accessible PDF files allow people with disabilities to access the file information with their assistive technology. For information and training on creating accessible PDF files, please refer to Resources For Making Non-HTML Content More Accessible on the Information Technology @ UIC site.

Fees:
$125 for each Announcement posted on UIC today
Payment forms accepted: CFOAP (campus units), Check (UIC student groups only)

DDDH
Administration-related email messages can be sent to Deans, Directors, and Department heads (DDDH) for $35. These messages are sent in an HTML template with a special DDDH masthead. They will not be posted on UIC today.


DDDH List
Request to be added to or deleted from the DDDH distribution list.

Please indicate if you are requesting to join the list or leave it.*


Add me to the list



Remove me from the list
Name*


First



Last

Email*

Job Title* Department* NameThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
 











Other publicity options are described on the Communicating on Campus page.



 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate




















