













Submit Announcements | UIC Today























































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







Submit Announcements


My name*


First



Last

My email*

Announcement type*


Standard



Research Studies



Official



DDDH
HiddenPost Category - AnnouncementsAnnouncementsPost Category - Research StudiesResearch StudiesHiddenPost Category - DDDHdelUncategorizedPost Category - Official*select your unitChancellor officialsProvost officialsVC Admin Services officialsVC Advancement officialsVC Budget, HR and Financial Administration officialsVC Diversity, Equity and Engagement officialsVC Health Affairs officialsVC Innovation officialsVC Research OfficialsVC SMCVC Student Affairs officials
Announcement (standard)
Announcements are paid promotional messages that are posted to the UIC Today site. They are restricted to events on campus or sponsored by campus units. Announcements can be submitted by anyone with a UIC email for a fee of $125.


Research Studies Announcements
Research Studies Announcements are paid promotional messages that are posted to the UIC Today site. They are restricted to events on campus or sponsored by campus units. Announcements can be submitted by anyone with a UIC email for a fee of $125.

Official massmails
Official university communications are reserved for messages from university administrative offices such as the University President, Chancellor, Provost or other Vice Chancellors. Selecting "Official" does not guarantee official processing. If your message is found inappropriate for Official use, you will be asked to provide a CFOAP number for billing as a standard web Announcement. Please send questions about Official messages to publicaffairs@uic.edu.
All Official messages are processed at no charge to the requesting department and will be distributed within 24 hours of submission at the discretion of Strategic Marketing and Communications.

DDDH
DDDH email communications are sent to UIC Deans, Directors, and Department Heads for a flat fee of $35. Administrative-related messages only, please. DDDH messages will be distributed within 24 hours of submission at the discretion of Strategic Marketing and Communications.
We are unable to attach files to DDDH email communications. We can, however, upload a file to the server and place a download link in the message body.

Preferred announcement date*

Month


Day


Year

at this time*

 :
Hours



Minutes



AM
PM

AM/PM

Payment method*


CFOAP (campus units)



Check (UIC student groups only)
CFOAP* Upload image (automatically resized to 1000px wide, set at top of post)Accepted file types: jpg, jpeg, png, gif.FileCaptionThis "caption" area is mandatory for web accessibility. Please describe the image and any text it may contain. This information will be presented as a hidden ALT attribute behind the image. UIC reply-to email address*


Enter Email



Confirm Email


Announcement Title*

Announcement details*Enter your content here. Please don't paste html into this space. 
For more information, please contact:

Contact Name (will be published on web)*


First



Last

Contact Email (will be published on web)*

Optional additional contact information (will be published on web) Upload file to distribute with DDDH emailAccepted file types: doc, docx, Max. file size: 100 MB.PLEASE NOTE: This file will not be sent as a file attachment. We will upload the file to the web server and provide a download link in the message. 
Audience*FacultyStaffStudentsFaculty and StaffAllPublish on today.uic.edu?

Yes


No
Should this announcement also be published on today.uic.edu? Special instructionsMessages will be distributed within 24 hours of submission at the discretion of Strategic Marketing and Communications. Your submission may be edited for content.**

I have read and understand the above.
EmailThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
   Save and Continue Later















 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate





















