












Fundamentals of Operations Management and Organizational Effectiveness | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







Fundamentals of Operations Management and Organizational Effectiveness



Date / Time
October 27, 2022  - November 30, 2022
All Day



Categories

Workshop




This course provides a basic overview of nonprofit operations, exploring significant facets of management that are not currently addressed elsewhere in the CNM curriculum: organizational structure and staffing; human resource administration; information technology; and organizational performance management.
Course Details

100% online.
Activities include readings, discussions and hands-on exercises.
50 hours of learning.
Fee: $550.

Certificate in Nonprofit Management
The University of Illinois Chicago’s Certificate in Nonprofit Management program provides a comprehensive suite of 100% online, non-credit courses designed for individuals working in or with the nonprofit industry. These courses cover a variety of topics integral to running a nonprofit organization, and will help build a strong and effective organization by educating employees. UIC offers 12 courses — take just one course or multiple courses, depending on your learning and career goals. You must complete three courses to earn UIC’s Certificate in Nonprofit Management.
Three courses are being offered starting Thursday, Oct. 27, and run through Wednesday, Nov. 30. The deadline to register is Thursday, Oct. 20, at noon CST.

Social Media Strategies for Nonprofits
Fundamentals of Operations Management and Organizational Effectiveness

Register for the courses.


More Events

RSS feed of UIC Today Events 
UIC Calendar of Events 
Submit an Event ➔
 





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













