












Social Media Strategies for Nonprofits | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







Social Media Strategies for Nonprofits



Date / Time
October 27, 2022  - November 30, 2022
12:00 am



Categories

Workshop




Social media can be a powerful tool for nonprofits of any size to further expand their traditional marketing management methods for branding, fundraising, volunteer recruitment, advocacy, communications and more. This course will focus on how nonprofits are using social media as a method to successfully build, manage and expand their networks and goals in new ways. We will explore and examine the use of social media as an advanced marketing strategy for multiple purposes. We will also learn how to build a strong digital foundation across various platforms, utilize best practices to sustain social media activities and support various nonprofit audiences and stakeholders.
Course Details

100% online.
Activities include readings, discussions and hands-on exercises.
50 hours of learning.
Fee: $550.

Certificate in Nonprofit Management
The University of Illinois Chicago’s Certificate in Nonprofit Management program provides a comprehensive suite of 100% online, non-credit courses designed for individuals working in or with the nonprofit industry. These courses cover a variety of topics integral to running a nonprofit organization, and will help build a strong and effective organization by educating employees. UIC offers 12 courses — take just one course or multiple courses, depending on your learning and career goals. You must complete three courses to earn UIC’s Certificate in Nonprofit Management.
Three courses are being offered starting Thursday, Oct. 27, and run through Wednesday, Nov. 30. The deadline to register is Thursday, Oct. 20, at noon CST.

Social Media Strategies for Nonprofits
Fundamentals of Operations Management and Organizational Effectiveness

Register for a course.


More Events

RSS feed of UIC Today Events 
UIC Calendar of Events 
Submit an Event ➔
 





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













