












Study Abroad in Spain with UIC – Spanish Culture through Food, Language, Literature, and Art Information Session | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







Study Abroad in Spain with UIC – Spanish Culture through Food, Language, Literature, and Art Information Session



Date / Time
November 30, 2022 
12:30 pm - 1:30 pm



Categories
No Categories



Learn about our faculty-directed program in Spain — “Spanish Culture Through Food, Language, Literature, and Art.” The faculty directors will be hosting an info session Nov. 30 from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. at the Study Abroad Office in University Hall or on Zoom to share more about this program. The program in Alcalá de Henares, right outside of Madrid, welcomes UIC students taking upper-level Spanish courses as well as those still learning the language. Students will have the opportunity to complete general Ed requirements through an interdisciplinary food, literature, and culture course and the Basic Language Track or take a deep dive into linguistics and literature with 200 and 300 upper level courses towards their major/ minor. Sociocultural excursions in and around Madrid will give you insight into the historical and modern day influences on Spanish culture. Your studies will culminate in a capstone trip to Andalucía (Córdoba and Granada). If you’re interested in applying, apply now.


More Events

RSS feed of UIC Today Events 
UIC Calendar of Events 
Submit an Event ➔
 





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













