 















                            Diversity Strategic Plan | Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Advancing Racial Equity
                




                  Awards
                




                  Contact Us
                




                  Diversity Strategic Plan
                




                  Events
                




                  Leadership
                




                  News
                




                  Team
                









        Community
      


Expand Community menu











                  African American Advisory Council
                




                  Committees
                




                  Community Resources
                




                  Cultural Centers
                




                  Heritage Garden
                




                  Support the Ida B. Wells Scholarship Fund
                









        Education
      


Expand Education menu











                  “Acknowledge” is a Verb
                




                  Bias Reporting and Prevention
                




                  Data
                




                  Diversity Town Halls
                




                  The Equity Dashboard Project
                




                  Past Events and Programs
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Bridge to Faculty
                




                  Dialogue Initiative
                




                  Faculty Award Opportunities
                




                  Inclusive Classroom Initiative
                




                  STRategies for Inclusion, Diversity and Equity
                









        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Early Outreach Program
                




                  REAL Community
                




                  Resources
                




                  Undocumented Student Support
                








Eyebrow menu


Office of the Chancellor


Office of the Provost


Donate


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement


About


Diversity Strategic Plan






Diversity Strategic Plan





            Diversity Strategic Plan
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Through the Lens of Diversity
                    

                Challenges and opportunities to help shape UIC's strategic plan.
            












                            A Mosaic for Transformation
                    

                Interconnected goals and actions to integrate diversity throughout all levels and activities of the campus.
            










            A Brief History of the Diversity Strategic Thinking Process.
          Heading link



 
Copy link



In the fall of 2008, the Provost sought nominations from Deans and Vice Chancellors of individuals to serve on a campus-level Diversity Strategic Thinking and Planning Committee (DSTP). The committee met with campus constituencies to gain perspective on campus diversity issues. Each campus activity was assessed to find opportunities to further support diversity. They were assessed in six areas: (1) Environment/Climate, (2) Faculty, (3) Research, (4) Staff, (5) Students, (6) Teaching and Learning. Students were also encouraged to participate in the DSTP process through the creation of a Student Advisory Committee. The DSTP was split into two phases:
Phase I started in January of 2009. The goal of the first stage, Diversity Strategic Thinking, was to consider how UIC interprets, accomplishes, assesses, and utilizes our diversity. A formal document outlining campus diversity was drafted in early 2010, called Through the Lens of Diversity. Current activities and future priorities were shared and discussed in a series of town hall meetings*. Communications with students, faculty, and staff provided the foundation for stage two of the process in which a campus and college/unit Diversity Strategic Plan were developed.
Phase II began in June of 2010. The second stage, Diversity Strategic Planning, articulates the university’s diversity agenda. The university’s vision, mission, goals, and aims were outlined, along with the programs, policies, and activities to guide UIC toward their goals. Each college and administrative unit has a Diversity Strategic Plan that communicates their distinctive agenda, collaboratively called Mosaic for UIC Transformation. Also included in this phase were approaches and mechanisms for regular assessment of progress and effectiveness.








About


Back to main content









Advancing Racial Equity 


ARE Strategic Planning 

Advancing Racial Equity: Progress 



Awards 

Contact Us 

Diversity Strategic Plan 

Events 

Leadership 

News 

Team 













 
University of Illinois Chicago











































UIC Quick Guide


U and I Care Network


Dean of Students


Counseling Center


Cultural Centers


Office for Access and Equity


Resources for Undocumented Students


Office of International Services


Supplier Diversity


For further access to UIC resources




Policies


UIC Nondiscrimination Policy




Footer


Contact Us


Join Our Mailing List








Button Menu


Donate






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 2631 UH Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 312-355-1308
Fax: 312-996-5067
diversity@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












