 












                            Sexual Misconduct | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Sexual Misconduct

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  What is Title IX?
                




                  Title IX Coordinator
                




                  Office for Access and Equity
                









        Policy
      


Expand Policy menu











                  Policy Coverage
                




                  Comprehensive Policy and Procedures [PDF]
                




                  Confidentiality
                




                  Rights and Options in Reporting
                




                  Sexual Misconduct Definitions
                




                  State/Federal Crime Definitions
                









        Support
      


Expand Support menu











                  For Complainants
                




                  For Family Members
                




                  For Friends
                




                  For Faculty and Staff
                




                  For Respondents
                




                  Resources
                









        Education & Training
      


Expand Education & Training menu











                  Title IX Training (Student and Employees)
                




                  Title IX Training Materials
                




                  Bystander Intervention
                




                  Campus Climate Survey
                




                  Sexual Harassment in Higher Education Poster
                









        Report Incident
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Sexual Misconduct
              


























            Introduction
          Heading link



 
Copy link



UIC is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, and respectful learning, living and working environment for its students, faculty, and staff members. When individuals experience sexual harassment and sexual misconduct (i.e. sexual assault, stalking, dating violence, domestic violence), their sense of safety and trust is violated and this can significantly interfere with their success at the university. Our community expects that all interpersonal relationships and interactions – especially those of an intimate nature – are based upon values of mutual respect, dignity, responsibility, open communication, and clear consent.
Responding to incidents of sexual misconduct can be challenging, whether you are the person harmed or someone trying to help. All of us play a vital role in creating a safer, more caring campus culture in which bias, harassment, and violence have no place—and every member of our community is free to flourish.
The Prohibition of Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment and Other Sexual Misconduct policy has been developed to address all types of sexual misconduct, including sexual harassment, sexual assault, stalking, dating violence and domestic violence.
The university takes all complaints and accusations of sexual misconduct seriously. We welcome your involvement in our mission to foster a campus environment that strives to prevent sexual misconduct and promotes the reporting of sexual misconduct, compassionate responses to survivors of sexual violence, and equitable treatment of all complainants and respondents.







            Homepage Options
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Report an Incident
                    












                            Talk to Someone
                    












                            Offer Support
                    











Title IX Sexual Misconduct Training








            About this Website
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The UIC Sexual Misconduct website serves as a comprehensive resource for students, faculty, and staff. The site includes information about the UIC Prohibition of Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment and Other Sexual Misconduct policy and procedures, helpful resources, and the university’s prevention and training programs.
Please look through this site to access critical information you may need such as: how to report an incident of sexual misconduct; how to get help; how to help someone who has been affected by sexual misconduct; campus and community resources; and information about rights and confidentiality.
The website was created by University representatives from the Office for Access and Equity, Office of the Dean of Students, UIC Police, University Counsel, Campus Advocacy Network, Counseling Center, Campus Housing, Wellness Center, Office of International Services, Campus Programs, Campus Auxiliary Services, and Public Affairs.















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 Title IX Coordinator
809 S. Marshfield, 717 MAB (MC 602), Chicago IL 60612
Phone: (312) 996-8670
titleix@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












