 











                            Strategic Plan | University Library | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































University Library

Main Menu




        Help
      


Expand Help menu











                  Help Center
                




                  Using the Library
                




                  Research Help
                




                  Get help from a Librarian
                




                  Contact Us
                









        Collections
      


Expand Collections menu











                  Articles
                




                  Books & Media
                




                  Databases
                




                  Digital Images & Media
                




                  Journals
                




                  Maps & Geographic Information Systems
                




                  Special Collections & University Archives
                




                  Theses, Dissertations & UIC Publications
                









        Libraries
      


Expand Libraries menu











                  Chicago - Daley
                




                  Chicago - Health Sciences
                




                  Peoria - Health Sciences
                




                  Rockford - Health Sciences
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Events
                




                  News
                




                  Jobs & Careers
                




                  People
                




                  Student Success
                




                  Library Faculty
                




                  Policies
                




                  Strategic Plan
                




                  Exhibits
                




                  Library Hours
                




                  Using the Library
                









        Services
      


Expand Services menu











                  Accessibility
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Visitors
                




                  Alumni
                




                  Corporate Membership
                




                  Course Reserves
                




                  Digital Scholarship
                




                  Library Instruction
                




                  Research Help
                




                  Interlibrary Loan
                








Eyebrow menu


Hours


Contact Us


My Accounts


Give to the Library


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                University Library
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

University Library


About


Strategic Plan






Strategic Plan
Empower the UIC community to discover, use and create knowledge.





            Plan tiles.
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Strategic Plan (full)
                    

                FY2019-21 Strategic Plan, full (downloadable PDF, 3.1MB)
            









                            Strategic Plan (at-a-glance)
                    

                FY2019-21 Strategic Plan, abridged (downloadable PDF, 78KB)
            









                            About the UIC Library
                    

                Information about the UIC Library, including facts about demographics and expenditures
            










            Main text.
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Mission
Empower the UIC community to discover, use and create knowledge.
Vision
A world of equal access to information and resources where everyone is inspired to achieve their goals.
Values
The UIC Library is its people—the faculty, staff, and students who create, preserve, and provide access to knowledge and share expertise to foster user success. The deeply held values of these individuals create the energy that drives the excellence of our organization.

User-centeredness
We are committed to helping others. We seek to understand our diverse users’ needs through conversation and data gathering, aligning our resources and services accordingly.
Inclusiveness
We are committed to creating a welcoming environment for all staff and users in which diverse identities, backgrounds, and experiences are respected and diverse skills are nurtured and developed. We are committed to increasing the diversity of our faculty and staff through active recruitment and thoughtful mentoring. We are committed to collecting and preserving resources that tell the stories of the diverse communities that make up Chicago and ensuring that all of our resources are accessible and easy to use.
Equity and Social Justice
We are committed to ensuring equal access to information through active support of open scholarship, inclusive collecting of resources and accessible resources and systems.
Creativity
We are committed to creative problem-solving as we explore improved practices in information and service delivery, having fun along the way and embracing failure as a part of the process.
Collaboration
We are committed to working with each other, campus, community and other partners, understanding that good relationships create better ideas and stronger outcomes.
Communication
We are committed to listening actively and sharing information with each other and the UIC community as openly as possible.
Force for Good
We are committed to creating a positive impact on our communities and our colleagues.
Privacy and Intellectual Freedom
We are committed to the privacy of our users and to the freedom of expression as manifested in respectful discourse.
Professional Commitment
We are committed to research and service that advances knowledge and practice in our campus libraries and our fields.
Personal Responsibility
We are committed to treating each other and our users with kindness, compassion and encouragement. We are committed to approaching our work with integrity, joy, gratitude and optimism. We are committed to producing quality work that is accurate, consistent, reliable and efficient. We are committed to taking advantage of opportunities to grow professionally and personally.
Information Literacy
We are committed to helping our community learn how to critically evaluate information for authenticity, validity, and reliability in order to combat misinformation, disinformation, hoaxes, and fake news. We support scientific integrity and science-based policy.

Goals
Goal 1: Access
Build seamless, comprehensive and consistent access to global collections, instruction and services whether digital or physical.

Integrate our electronic resources, physical spaces and services so that users are aware of the breadth and depth of information available to them.
Implement a preservation and access repository to provide access to approximately 40 TB of unique born-digital and digitized materials.
Improve communication about what resources and materials are available to faculty and students.

Goal 2: Include
Create and sustain an inclusive culture and a welcoming environment for all.

Continue to develop and build awareness of collections that represent diverse perspectives and engage students.
Demonstrate cultural competence in all aspects of Library services, policies, facilities and programming.
Recruit and retain a diverse faculty and staff.
Implement programs that support diversifying the profession of librarianship.
Re-envision the role of the Library Diversity Committee to provide leadership and guidance in helping the Library achieve its overall goals of creating and sustaining an inclusive culture.

Goal 3: Integrate
Expand integration of the Library into UIC faculty and students’ research life cycles.

Build the capacity to support digital scholarship.
Lead efforts to incentivize the creation and adoption of open educational resources (OER).
Lead efforts to develop impact reports on university research outputs, including the faculty profile tool.
Continue to build rich collections that record the diverse history of Chicago and the university and increase researchers’ access to Special Collections and University Archives (SCUA).









About


Back to main content









Events 


Daley Library 

LHS Chicago 

LHS Peoria 

LHS Rockford 

LHS Urbana 

Online 

All Events 



News 

Jobs & Careers 


Faculty Support 



People 


Emeritus 

Library Departments 

Subject Librarians 



Student Success 


Undergraduate Engagement Program 


About Us 

Wall of Encouragement 

Finals Care Events 

UIC Library Swag Design Contest 

Contact the UEP 





Library Faculty 


Projects and Initiatives 

Teaching and Learning 



Policies 


Code of Conduct 

Collection Development Policy 

Daley Library Policies 


IDEA Commons Classroom Reservations 



Digital Project Collaboration Policy 

Renewal and Return Policies 

Service Policy 

User Privacy Policy 



Strategic Plan 

Exhibits 


Digital Exhibits 



Library Hours 

Using the Library 













 


























Library Locations


Richard J. Daley Library


Library of the Health Sciences-Chicago


Library of the Health Sciences-Peoria


Crawford Library of the Health Sciences-Rockford


UIC School of Law Library








Footer Menu


Library Home


My Accounts


Accessibility Services


Visitor Services


Faculty Services


Alumni Services


Admin login


Library Hours


Contact Us






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Richard J. Daley Library, 801 S. Morgan, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-2716
lib-help@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield






Chat with a LibrarianClose





