 











                            Congratulations to the 2022 Library Research Award Winners | University Library | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































University Library

Main Menu




        Help
      


Expand Help menu











                  Help Center
                




                  Using the Library
                




                  Research Help
                




                  Get help from a Librarian
                




                  Contact Us
                









        Collections
      


Expand Collections menu











                  Articles
                




                  Books & Media
                




                  Databases
                




                  Digital Images & Media
                




                  Journals
                




                  Maps & Geographic Information Systems
                




                  Special Collections & University Archives
                




                  Theses, Dissertations & UIC Publications
                









        Libraries
      


Expand Libraries menu











                  Chicago - Daley
                




                  Chicago - Health Sciences
                




                  Peoria - Health Sciences
                




                  Rockford - Health Sciences
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Events
                




                  News
                




                  Jobs & Careers
                




                  People
                




                  Student Success
                




                  Library Faculty
                




                  Policies
                




                  Strategic Plan
                




                  Exhibits
                




                  Library Hours
                




                  Using the Library
                









        Services
      


Expand Services menu











                  Accessibility
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Visitors
                




                  Alumni
                




                  Corporate Membership
                




                  Course Reserves
                




                  Digital Scholarship
                




                  Library Instruction
                




                  Research Help
                




                  Interlibrary Loan
                








Eyebrow menu


Hours


Contact Us


My Accounts


Give to the Library


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                University Library
              











Congratulations to the 2022 Library Research Award Winners


Posted on October 11, 2022




Share this on Facebook








Share this on Twitter








Share this via email












The UIC Library English 161 Research Awards, initiated in the fall of 2020, recognize excellence in student research that demonstrates best practices in finding, evaluating and synthesizing sources to develop creative and impactful work. Students also reflect on their research and writing process in the form of a short essay, which is judged in conjunction with the research paper.
The entries from English 161 classes from Spring 2022 English 161 were outstanding! After much deliberation, we are pleased to announce the following awards based on both the research paper and process essays:
First Place: Christopher Paramby, sophomore, integrated health studies with a concentration in behavioral health, nominated by Todd Sherfinski
“Insects through time: Medically beneficial or environmentally threatening?”
Christopher’s instructor Todd Sherfinski noted how “very well researched” his paper was and that it “illustrates how to complicate comparison/contrast in an interesting and meaningful way.”
Second Place: Naya Kabbach, sophomore, biological sciences with a minor in psychology, nominated by Bridget English
“Improvements in Treating Female Patients with Trauma”
From Bridget English: “Beginning with an assessment of current treatment programs for trauma patients, this paper expertly integrates evidence to support points and presents convincing solutions to the problem.”
Third Place: Phoebe Stoughton, sophomore, music performance major, nominated by Sarah Primeau
“Benefits of participating in an instrumental ensemble”
During her research, Phoebe noticed that researchers studied many types of groups, but not specifically college students. Sarah Primeau noted that “Phoebe’s own original research fills that gap by reporting on the results of interviews she conducted with UIC students who participate in music ensembles.”
Phoebe learned that “the key to writing a good paper is to choose a topic that excites you.” This is excellent advice for any student.
Librarian judges enjoyed reading each submission, and all students who submitted applications should be proud of their work. Congratulations to them all!















 


























Library Locations


Richard J. Daley Library


Library of the Health Sciences-Chicago


Library of the Health Sciences-Peoria


Crawford Library of the Health Sciences-Rockford


UIC School of Law Library








Footer Menu


Library Home


My Accounts


Accessibility Services


Visitor Services


Faculty Services


Alumni Services


Admin login


Library Hours


Contact Us






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Richard J. Daley Library, 801 S. Morgan, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-2716
lib-help@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield






Chat with a LibrarianClose





