












UIC Research and Scholarship Annual Award Competition | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







 




















UIC Research and Scholarship Annual Award Competition

				November 15, 2022			
Dear faculty, staff and students,
The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research is pleased to announce the return of the UIC Research and Scholarship Annual Award Competition after a two-year hiatus. These awards celebrate the efforts and commitment of individuals who have made exceptional progress advancing knowledge in their area of research and scholarship, inspiring and promoting continued excellence at UIC.
The Distinguished Researcher and Distinguished Scholar awards recognize individuals who have demonstrated outstanding achievement in their fields, while the Rising Star awards honor individuals who show exceptional promise to become future leaders.
For the 2023 competition, one Distinguished Researcher and one Rising Star awardee will be selected from each of the following categories:

Basic Life Sciences.
Clinical Sciences.
Natural Sciences and Engineering.
Social Sciences.

In addition, one Distinguished Scholar and one Rising Star awardee will be selected from the following category:

Humanities, Arts, Design and Architecture.

Any member of the campus community is eligible to submit nominations for these awards; self-nominations will also be accepted. Nominations are due by Monday, Jan. 9, 2023, and letters of support are due by Monday, Jan. 23, 2023.
View additional information, including eligibility criteria for each category, and access the application portal online. Please direct any questions about the nomination process to rds@uic.edu.
An awards ceremony recognizing not only the Researchers and Scholars of the Year but also Inventor of the Year will take place in April 2023.
Sincerely,
Joanna L. Groden, PhD
Vice Chancellor for Research
For more information, please contact:
Sarah O’Brien
rds@uic.edu



Contact

UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu



Categories

Official Communications, VC Research Officials 





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













