












Negotiations continue between UIC, UICUF | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







 




















Negotiations continue between UIC, UICUF

				November 16, 2022			

Negotiations are continuing between the University of Illinois Chicago and UIC United Faculty, the labor union representing the bargaining units of tenure/tenure-track and nontenure-track faculty with 51% time or more, including visiting faculty, at UIC.
Since April 2022, the university and union have held almost 20 bargaining sessions and, recently, an independent mediator from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service was engaged to assist the parties in working toward a resolution.
Earlier this week, the union held a strike authorization vote for its members and the result of that vote has not been announced at this time. This vote is advisory to union leadership and does not mean that a strike is imminent. Before a strike can occur, the union must provide the university with a 10-day notice of intent to strike. That has not occurred.
With 14 of 23 issues agreed upon to date and mostly economic articles yet to be resolved, the university remains fully committed to good-faith bargaining and the mediation process. At the beginning of negotiations, both UIC and UICUF agreed to first focus solely on resolving non-economic issues. The parties began exchanging proposals to address key economic issues in October. UIC believes continuing dialogue is the best path forward to come to a mutual agreement on the outstanding articles in the union contract.
The next bargaining session is scheduled for Nov. 22.
While negotiations progress, updates will continue to be provided to the campus community at facultybargaining.uic.edu.



Contact

UIC News contributor

uictoday@uic.edu



Categories

Announcements, Info 





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













