












UIC celebrates Trans Awareness Week | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







 




















UIC celebrates Trans Awareness Week

				November 9, 2022			
UIC’s Chancellor’s Committee on the Status of LGBTQ+ People and the Gender and Sexuality Center will celebrate Trans Awareness Week Nov. 13-19.
To commemorate Trans Awareness Week this year, the GSC wants to share the voices and experiences of our trans siblings. They will be creating a video to highlight all of the wonderful ways that trans people find and build community, and what exactly “community” means to them. Please submit your written response or digital content. You can also stop by the GSC during open hours to record your responses with their staff. If you align with the Trans community and have any art or music you would like to highlight, please include it in your submission.
The Chancellor’s Committee on the Status of LGBTQ+ People encourages all UIC community members to learn more about LGBTQ+ folx and reinforces our commitment to greater inclusion of LGBTQ+ individuals at UIC with the following resources:

UIC Gender and Sexuality Center.

All-Gender Restrooms.


UIC Bias Reporting Tool: Bias Reporting and Prevention.
Update your preferred name and personal pronouns in Banner and on Zoom.

We know that pronouns can change and UIC community members are welcome to update as needed.


For allies: Navigating Allyship.
For faculty:

Make use of engaged teaching strategies to foster interaction with students.
Ask your students what they’d prefer to be called and make a note on your roster.
Coming Soon: Center for the Advancement of Teaching Excellence Pronoun Usage.






Contact

UIC News contributor

uictoday@uic.edu



Categories

Announcements, Info 





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













