 















                            Healthcare | UI Health | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.








UI Health



















































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        















UI Health




















































UI Health

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  We are UI Health
                









        Health Colleges
      




        Healthcare
      




        Research & Clinical Trials
      


Expand Research & Clinical Trials menu











                  CREATE WISDOM
                









        Community
      



Eyebrow menu


MAKE A GIFT


UIC menu


UI Health


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















Healthcare





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












Providing Comprehensive Patient Care for Illinois & Beyond
In addition to the seven UIC health sciences colleges, UI Health is comprised of a robust healthcare delivery enterprise that serves individuals and families in Illinois and across the globe. UI Health provides diverse clinical services through primary and specialty care at the University of Illinois Hospital & Clinics, the Mile Square Health Center network and many other health sciences college faculty practice clinics.
The University of Illinois Hospital & Clinics
The University of Illinois Hospital & Clinics is the State of Illinois' only public general hospital, consisting of a 460-bed hospital; the Children's Hospital University of Illinois (CHUI) - which includes a 101-bed specialty pediatric hospital with a 55-bed NICU; and an Outpatient Care Center that houses 21 primary and specialty care clinics. With nearly 140,000 unique patients and 500,000 annual clinic visits (in FY18) the University of Illinois Hospital & Clinics is committed to the pursuit of health equity ensuring that safe, high-quality, and cost-effective care for our patients is our foremost responsibility.
The Mile Square Health Center (MSHC) Network
Established in 1967, The Mile Square Health Center network is among the first Federally Qualified Health Centers in the nation. Employing a community-based practice model, MSHC operates 13 locations across the Chicagoland region: eight primary locations and five school-based health and wellness centers.
Faculty Practice Clinics
The academic experts in the 7 UIC Health Sciences Colleges bring leading-edge research and innovation into their clinics. With numerous clinics in the medical district and across the state, UI Health faculty offer services through the UIC College of Dentistry, the UIC College of Applied Health Sciences, and more.






            Expanding Access to Quality Health Care
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Shive-Hattery and ZGF
        

          Architectural rendering of the new Specialty Care Building, slated to open Fall of 2022.
        


Several capital projects are expanding access to high-quality and cost-effective health care for Chicago families:
The new 55th & Pulaski Health Collaborative, serving the Gage Park and West Elsdon communities, increases access to specialty care, care coordination, urgent care, behavioral health, dental care, women’s health, and advanced diagnostics.
The UI Health Mile Square Health Center Primary and Immediate Care Center, serving the Auburn-Gresham community, opened in summer of 2022 and will annually serve more than 8,000 individuals with adult and pediatric primary and immediate care.
Opened to patients on September 26, 2022, UI Health’s new Specialty Care Building (SCB) is a 200,000-square-foot facility featuring six floors of patient care space to accommodate the increasing volume and complexity of surgical care, education, and research.
Opening in Fall 2022, the Welcome Atrium at the University of Illinois Hospital will be a new two-story lobby that welcomes patients and their families and with a first-class healthcare experience.



      Learn More About These Projects
    
















UI Health































            UIC's seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise.
        



Quick Links


About Us


Community


Health Sciences Colleges


Healthcare


Research & Clinical Trials




Healthcare Resources


Patient Portal


Find a Doctor


For Patients


For Clinicians


Locations & Directions




Health Sciences Colleges


Applied Health Sciences


Dentistry


Medicine


Nursing


Pharmacy


Public Health


Social Work








Footer 4


Give Now


Health Professions Admissions


Contact UI Health






Social Media Accounts








Contact
 914 South Wood Street (MCA 973)
Phone: (312) 355-6465
vcha@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













