 















                            Research & Clinical Trials | UI Health | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.








UI Health



















































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        















UI Health




















































UI Health

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  We are UI Health
                









        Health Colleges
      




        Healthcare
      




        Research & Clinical Trials
      


Expand Research & Clinical Trials menu











                  CREATE WISDOM
                









        Community
      



Eyebrow menu


MAKE A GIFT


UIC menu


UI Health


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















Research & Clinical Trials





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon












A Public Research Institution for Public Benefit
UIC is Chicago’s only public research university. We pride ourselves on sparking new discoveries and innovations that can be practically applied for the benefit of the public and all our communities across Chicago, the state of Illinois, and around the world. In fact, UIC reported a record $453 million in annual sponsored research awards in FY2021, the third consecutive year of record awards, which underscores the university’s commitment and excellence in research and discovery. UIC and UI Health bring together expertise and curiosity across diverse disciplines like few others in the nation.





            Research awards broken down by health sciences colleges
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Health Sciences Research Awards Broken Down by Unit
(Source: UIC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research, FY21)




            College of Medicine
          

            $190.4M

          



            School of Public Health
          

            $40.8M
          



            College of Pharmacy
          

            $20.4M
          



            College of Applied Health Sciences
          

            $16.8M
          



            College of Nursing
          

            $16.4M
          



            Healthcare Systems
          

            $16.0M
          



            College of Pharmacy
          

            $16.0M
          



            College of Social Work
          

            $7.1M
          



            College of Dentistry
          

            $7.0M
          



            VC for Health Affairs
          

            $0.2M
          



Grand Total


$331.1M (73% of total UIC awards)
          









            Clinical Trials at UI Health
          Heading link



 
Copy link



As defined by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Clinical Trials are a type of clinical study in which participants are assigned to groups that receive one or more intervention/treatment (or no intervention) so that researchers can evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical or health-related outcomes. The assignments are determined by the study’s protocol. Participants may receive diagnostic, therapeutic, or other types of interventions.
Clinical Trials at UI Health are conducted across the health sciences colleges. More information about some clinical trials is listed below. Please contact the individual departments or colleges for more specific questions about participating in clinical trials research.





                            The University of Illinois Cancer Center
                    








            The University of Illinois Cancer Center
          

The most successful cancer treatments today are based on what we have learned from clinical trials. As a result, people with cancer are living longer, with a better quality of life. Participating in clinical trials at the University of Illinois Cancer Center may not only benefit you, but it could also help future patients through the development of newer, safer treatments.
Click here for a listing of UI Cancer Center clinical studies currently enrolling participants.  Click on the dropdown menu to filter the list by the site of your disease.  If you are interested in participating in a trial listed, please email cancertrials@uic.edu or call 312-355-5112.












            Research Studies at UI Health
          Heading link



 
Copy link



As defined by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), clinical research studies (or observational studies) are a type of clinical study in which participants are identified as belonging to study groups and are assessed for biomedical or health outcomes. Participants may receive diagnostic, therapeutic, or other types of interventions, but the investigator does not assign participants to a specific interventions/treatment. A patient registry is a type of observational study.
Various Research Studies at UI Health are conducted across the health sciences colleges. More information about some of these studies are listed below. Please contact the individual departments or colleges for more specific questions about participating in research studies.





                            Center for Clinical & Translational Science
                    








            Center for Clinical & Translational Science
          

The UIC Center for Clinical and Translational Science (CCTS) is a central resource on campus to provide support and services to clinical investigators and patients interested in participating in studies. More information about the CCTS can be found online here.














Research & Clinical Trials


Back to main content









CREATE WISDOM 


CREATE WISDOM: Our Team 

CREATE WISDOM: Wicked Problems in Healthcare 

CREATE WISDOM: Projects & Initiatives 














UI Health































            UIC's seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise.
        



Quick Links


About Us


Community


Health Sciences Colleges


Healthcare


Research & Clinical Trials




Healthcare Resources


Patient Portal


Find a Doctor


For Patients


For Clinicians


Locations & Directions




Health Sciences Colleges


Applied Health Sciences


Dentistry


Medicine


Nursing


Pharmacy


Public Health


Social Work








Footer 4


Give Now


Health Professions Admissions


Contact UI Health






Social Media Accounts








Contact
 914 South Wood Street (MCA 973)
Phone: (312) 355-6465
vcha@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













