 















                            New Specialty Care Building Opened in September 2022 | UI Health | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.








UI Health



















































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        















UI Health




















































UI Health

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  We are UI Health
                









        Health Colleges
      




        Healthcare
      




        Research & Clinical Trials
      


Expand Research & Clinical Trials menu











                  CREATE WISDOM
                









        Community
      



Eyebrow menu


MAKE A GIFT


UIC menu


UI Health


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search






















New Specialty Care Building Opened in September 2022


Posted on August 08, 2022






            Shive-Hattery and ZGF
          

            Architectural rendering of the Specialty Care Building
          








            article part 1
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The UI Health Specialty Care Building (SCB), featuring the Bruno & Sallie Pasquinelli Outpatient Surgery Center and five specialty clinics, opened to patients on September 26, 2022. The almost 200,000 square-foot facility offers six floors of patient care space to accommodate the growing need for expert specialty care and outpatient surgery. A total of eight operating rooms, and 24 pre-post/peri-anesthesia care unit bays provide comprehensive outpatient care for the diverse patients and communities served by UI Health.
The advanced care provided in the SCB includes outpatient surgery; transplant services, including a fully Spanish-speaking kidney transplant clinic; ophthalmology, ear, nose, throat/otolaryngology; head and neck surgery; urology; and gastroenterology. The UIC College of Pharmacy also provides outpatient pharmacy and compounding services as a convenient way for patients to pick up their prescriptions post-procedure.






            article part 2
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Shive-Hattery and ZGF
        

          Architectural rendering of the Specialty Care Building
        


By leveraging new technologies, the new state-of-the-art building offers an improved patient experience, allowing patients to check in using the convenience of their online patient account (MyChart) or using a kiosk. Greeters are also on-site to guide patients during their visit, and valet parking will be available.
With finalization of construction of the SCB, UI Health exceeded several goals of the Business Enterprise Program (BEP) Act, which promotes an inclusive and equitable business environment. UI Health committed to 20% of professional services and 30% of construction vendors as BEP vendors. To date, those goals were exceeded, with 20.3% of professional services and 35.4% of construction vendors as BEP certified. The facility is also on track to achieve LEED Gold Certification for environmental friendliness.
The SCB is projected to host 200,000 patient visits per year and more than 8,200 surgeries and 8,300 gastrointestinal procedures a year.
UIC Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs, Dr. Robert A. Barish thinks the SCB represents a milestone in offering state-of-the-art health care to Chicago communities. “Health equity through access to quality care is a pillar of the UI Health mission,” he said. “The Specialty Care Building accomplishes that mission by offering a first-class experience to patients and their families, and first-rate outpatient and clinical services. We are thrilled to see this new facility opening.”
The new building was inaugurated on September 14 with a ribbon cutting ceremony, attended by dignitaries from UI system and UI Health, as well as from Chicago and Illinois government.



      Photos and Video from the SCB Ribbon Cutting
    








            UI Health Specialty Care Building: A New Foundation for Expert Care
          Heading link



 
Copy link
















Modified on November 16, 2022












UI Health































            UIC's seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise.
        



Quick Links


About Us


Community


Health Sciences Colleges


Healthcare


Research & Clinical Trials




Healthcare Resources


Patient Portal


Find a Doctor


For Patients


For Clinicians


Locations & Directions




Health Sciences Colleges


Applied Health Sciences


Dentistry


Medicine


Nursing


Pharmacy


Public Health


Social Work








Footer 4


Give Now


Health Professions Admissions


Contact UI Health






Social Media Accounts








Contact
 914 South Wood Street (MCA 973)
Phone: (312) 355-6465
vcha@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













