 















                            UI Health Researchers Address Ongoing COVID-19 Issues | UI Health | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.








UI Health



















































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        















UI Health




















































UI Health

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  We are UI Health
                









        Health Colleges
      




        Healthcare
      




        Research & Clinical Trials
      


Expand Research & Clinical Trials menu











                  CREATE WISDOM
                









        Community
      



Eyebrow menu


MAKE A GIFT


UIC menu


UI Health


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search






















UI Health Researchers Address Ongoing COVID-19 Issues


Posted on July 08, 2022








            Long COVID: Understanding the Causes and Mitigating the Impacts
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Joshua Clark/UIC
        

          Alma Aguilar, a long COVID patient participating in the RECOVER research study at the University of Illinois Chicago, has her blood drawn at UI Health Mile Square Health Center.
        


A team of researchers is receiving $22 million of funding from the National Institutes of Health to study the emerging health condition commonly known as long COVID. Dr. Jerry Krishnan, UIC associate vice chancellor for population health sciences, and Dr. Jonathan Klein, UIC associate vice chancellor for research, are leading an Illinois-based research consortium called ILLInet RECOVER. Over four years, and in partnership with health centers, community-based organizations, and faith-based organizations in Chicago and Peoria, the study will increase our understanding of long COVID-19 in adults and its impact on vulnerable communities in both urban and rural areas.
Specifically, the UIC researchers are studying what makes an individual vulnerable to long COVID-19, which is among the conditions known as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection. In addition, researchers are exploring factors that might be protective against long COVID and interventions that can help people recover as quickly as possible if they do experience these long-term effects.
“We want to better understand whether a patient’s recovery differs according to the strain of SARS-CoV-2 that caused COVID-19; health history and lifestyle, including vaccination status before infection; and the role of social and environmental factors,” said Dr. Jerry Krishnan, lead principal investigator. “Answers to these questions will help us to support the people and communities most impacted by COVID-19.”



      Learn More about ILLInet RECOVER
    








            Novel Approach to Preventing and Treating COVID-19 in Vulnerable Populations
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Illustration: CDC
        

          The ultrastructural morphology exhibited by SARS-CoV-2 and the spike proteins that adorn the outer surface of the virus.
        


Asrar Malik, professor in the department of pharmacology and regenerative medicine at the College of Medicine, and Jalees Rehman, professor in the department of pharmacology and regenerative medicine and the department of medicine, are leading research into an engineered molecule that has the potential to reduce lung injury and death induced by variants of COVID-19. The drug acts by competing for the spike protein and effectively soaking up viruses before they can bind to and enter cells. Results suggest that the new treatment may have broad efficacy against newly emerging variants of the virus.  
“Vaccines remain the best option for preventing infections, long-term complications, and death from COVID-19, but vulnerable individuals who are at risk of developing severe COVID-19 include those who are unvaccinated or immunocompromised and therefore their immune system cannot protect them as well even after receiving vaccinations and boosters,” Dr. Rehman explained. “In addition, new variants of SARS-CoV-2, such as the most recent omicron variant, may partially evade the immune system and can cause breakthrough infections. For all the vulnerable patients, we need to create an array of treatments so that health care providers can choose the most appropriate drug or combination of drugs, depending on the individual patient’s disease stage and severity.”



      Learn More about this Study
    






Modified on September 28, 2022












UI Health































            UIC's seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise.
        



Quick Links


About Us


Community


Health Sciences Colleges


Healthcare


Research & Clinical Trials




Healthcare Resources


Patient Portal


Find a Doctor


For Patients


For Clinicians


Locations & Directions




Health Sciences Colleges


Applied Health Sciences


Dentistry


Medicine


Nursing


Pharmacy


Public Health


Social Work








Footer 4


Give Now


Health Professions Admissions


Contact UI Health






Social Media Accounts








Contact
 914 South Wood Street (MCA 973)
Phone: (312) 355-6465
vcha@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













