 















                            Ten UIC Students Receive Prestigious Schweitzer Fellowships | UI Health | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.








UI Health



















































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        















UI Health




















































UI Health

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  We are UI Health
                









        Health Colleges
      




        Healthcare
      




        Research & Clinical Trials
      


Expand Research & Clinical Trials menu











                  CREATE WISDOM
                









        Community
      



Eyebrow menu


MAKE A GIFT


UIC menu


UI Health


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search






















Ten UIC Students Receive Prestigious Schweitzer Fellowships


Posted on June 14, 2022


The Chicago Area Schweitzer Fellows Program has honored 28 graduate students in the metropolitan area with prestigious Schweitzer Fellowships, and ten of those 28 Fellows are students from the University of Illinois Chicago (UIC).
The Chicago Area Schweitzer Fellows Program encourages students to become lifelong leaders in service by addressing unmet health needs among vulnerable Chicagoland communities. In collaboration with community organizations, the Fellows will design and launch a community-based project to improve community well-being and address social determinants of health. Each project will provide 200 hours of service to Chicago communities.
Dr. Robert A. Barish, UIC Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs, says that the passion, vision, and dedication of these students exemplifies the mission of UIC and its academic health enterprise, UI Health. “The projects being undertaken by the Schweitzer Fellows will directly address health needs in underserved communities,” he said. “And the fact that so many of the Fellows are from UIC affirms the commitment we have at the university and at UI Health to promote health equity.”
Below are the service projects being undertaken by the Schweitzer Fellows at UIC:






            Schweitzer Fellow Service Projects
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Cindy Cruz, College of Nursing  
Cindy’s project will develop of a series of short and supplemental Un Minuto Conciente (Mindful Minute) presentations focused on mental health care for the pre-diabetic adult participants of Alivio Medical Center’s Prevent T2 program, in order to help them build coping strategies that will facilitate their success in achieving a healthier lifestyle.








Jennifer Cunningham, College of Nursing, Doctor of Nursing Practice  
Jennifer aims to build resilience in children and their families to reduce risk of abuse or neglect while also mitigating some of the effects of adverse childhood experiences.








Amy De La Torre, College of Medicine   
Amy proposes to teach Mental Health classes designed for underrepresented minority students in the Medicina Academy Apprentice Program (MAAP) in UIC’s Hispanic Center of Excellence. The curriculum will equip the students with knowledge, skills, and resources to support and promote their mental health literacy and wellness amid the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.








Jean Gavina, College of Nursing, Doctorate Nursing Program 
Jean proposes to implement a Health Education Program for Filipino Americans and minority populations. The program will provide guidance and resources for effective health education and health promotion to support healthier lifestyles.








Anne Osuji, College of Medicine  
Anne’s project will incorporate culturally appropriate heart-healthy eating habits for women previously experiencing homelessness at Deborah’s Place. The recipes and mindfulness practices will provide simple and healthy lifestyle modifications for women to improve cardiovascular outcomes, culminating in a program cookbook and wellness guidebook.








Jenna Pasanen, College of Liberal Arts and Science, Dept. of Criminology, Law, and Justice  
Jenna will implement a program to prepare incarcerated women at Cook County Jail for a successful return to their communities. The program will explore local resources and services that can support women in reaching their goals and improving their well-being.








Jennifer Plascencia Lopez, School of Public Health  
Jennifer will implement a high school mentorship program for first-generation, underserved youth in Chicago. The program will provide college readiness skills, professional skills development, and health career pathway exploration.








Juaquan Savage, College of Dentistry  
Juaquan proposes to initiate weekly Mouth meetings which will provide education and mentorship for students on the Southside of Chicago, addressing nutrition and oral health, and offering socioemotional support.








Tanner Shull, School of Public Health  
Tanner will establish a group of mothers and community leaders within Little Village churches and organizations to act as health promoters to encourage and link those members to receive preventive health care such as cancer screenings, diabetes classes, and primary care. Tanner also proposes to expand the 5+1=20 health promoter program in Chicago Public Schools of Pilsen to include schools in Little Village. The program builds up the leadership and health education capacity of high school students and encourages them to promote those lessons through community and family events. Altogether, this program seeks to improve the current 20-year life expectancy gap experienced by Hispanic and Latino populations in Chicago from the five most prevalent diseases and infections in that population.








Niam Vora, College of Pharmacy  
Niam aims to develop the nation’s first Transitions of Coordinated Care program for people with HCV/HIV released from the Illinois Department of Corrections. The program will serve as a case management/social support program to ensure recently incarcerated populations have access to medication, therapy, addictions resources, health literacy and insurance.









            Learn More
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Learn more about the Chicago Area Schweitzer Fellows Program.




Modified on September 28, 2022












UI Health































            UIC's seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise.
        



Quick Links


About Us


Community


Health Sciences Colleges


Healthcare


Research & Clinical Trials




Healthcare Resources


Patient Portal


Find a Doctor


For Patients


For Clinicians


Locations & Directions




Health Sciences Colleges


Applied Health Sciences


Dentistry


Medicine


Nursing


Pharmacy


Public Health


Social Work








Footer 4


Give Now


Health Professions Admissions


Contact UI Health






Social Media Accounts








Contact
 914 South Wood Street (MCA 973)
Phone: (312) 355-6465
vcha@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













