 















                            UI Health Researchers on Leading Edge of Improving Health in Older Populations | UI Health | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.








UI Health



















































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        















UI Health




















































UI Health

Main Menu




        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  We are UI Health
                









        Health Colleges
      




        Healthcare
      




        Research & Clinical Trials
      


Expand Research & Clinical Trials menu











                  CREATE WISDOM
                









        Community
      



Eyebrow menu


MAKE A GIFT


UIC menu


UI Health


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search






















UI Health Researchers on Leading Edge of Improving Health in Older Populations


Posted on November 16, 2022








            Research item 1
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Dr. Jun Ma
        


Dr. Jun Ma, the Beth and George Vitoux Professor of Medicine and director of Vitoux Program on Aging and Prevention at the UIC College of Medicine, is contact principal investigator on an important new $3.3 million multisite study. The study will focus on telehealth behavioral interventions among adults 50 and older with excess weight and cardiometabolic risk factors. Along with UI Health’s Dr. Rachel Caskey and Dr. Jonathan Radosta, they will collaborate with investigators from Washington University and the University of Pittsburgh to test behavioral weight loss interventions that are fully remote and integrated into the electronic health record. The study is one of the largest clinical trials in behavioral telemedicine and will lead to critically important insights for the delivery of health care, helping practitioners tailor interventions to patients’ particular needs.



      Learn More About Dr. Ma's Research
    








            Research item 2
          Heading link



 
Copy link







          Dr. Orly Lazarov and her team examining a film in the lab.
        


Dr. Orly Lazarov, professor of anatomy and cell biology at the UIC College of Medicine, is leading research into the restoration of memory loss from Alzheimer’s disease by boosting the production of neurons. The research has produced evidence that neurogenesis plays an active role in the pathology of the disease, the first time this has been demonstrated. Alzheimer’s is currently one of the most financially and emotionally burdensome diseases in the U.S., and Dr. Lazarov believes this research could lead to a new spectrum of medications that could restore memory in Alzheimer’s patients.



      Learn More About Dr. Lazarov's Research
    






Modified on November 16, 2022












UI Health































            UIC's seven health sciences colleges and health care delivery enterprise.
        



Quick Links


About Us


Community


Health Sciences Colleges


Healthcare


Research & Clinical Trials




Healthcare Resources


Patient Portal


Find a Doctor


For Patients


For Clinicians


Locations & Directions




Health Sciences Colleges


Applied Health Sciences


Dentistry


Medicine


Nursing


Pharmacy


Public Health


Social Work








Footer 4


Give Now


Health Professions Admissions


Contact UI Health






Social Media Accounts








Contact
 914 South Wood Street (MCA 973)
Phone: (312) 355-6465
vcha@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













