 












                            Benefits and Forms | Office of the Dean of Students | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of the Dean of Students

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Our Work, Mission and Values
                




                  Our Team
                




                  Student Handbook
                




                  Diversity Education
                




                  Policies
                




                  Student Government
                




                  Religious Workers’ Association
                




                  Request a Presentation
                




                  Location
                









        Assistance
      


Expand Assistance menu











                  Academic Concerns
                




                  Health & Personal Concerns
                




                  Campus Life
                




                  Faculty & Staff Resources
                




                  U & I Care
                









        Community Standards
      


Expand Community Standards menu











                  UIC Covid-19 Guidance
                




                  Academic Integrity
                




                  Personal & Community Integrity
                




                  Community Standards Forms
                




                  Community Standards Process
                




                  Get Involved
                




                  Record Requests
                




                  Assessment & Reports
                









        Student Veterans
      


Expand Student Veterans menu











                  Benefits and Forms
                




                  Get Connected
                




                  Veterans Week 2022
                




                  Stars & Stripes Newsletters
                




                  Staff & Faculty
                




                  FAQs
                




                  Contact Student Veteran Affairs
                









        Student Legal
      



Eyebrow menu


Diversity Education


U & I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of the Dean of Students
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Office of the Dean of Students


Student Veterans


Benefits and Forms






Benefits and Forms
If you plan to submit an application to receive US Department of Veterans Affairs Chapter 30, 31, 33, 35, 1606, or 1607 benefits the information found on our application and forms guidance link located at https://dos.uic.edu/student-veterans-affairs/benefits-and-forms/ will point you in the right direction regarding VA benefit processing. It is important to note that students must use their UIC email account to submit an application and it is equipped to securely support multiple attachments. Forms are not accepted via email.
Enrollment certifications will be processed in the order in which they were received.
• Fall processing begins on or after June 15
• Spring processing begins on or after November 15
• Summer processing begins on or after April 1
The deadline for submitting a completed application for all terms is the Friday before the semester begins to ensure timely payments. Students who choose to delay submission by this deadline run the risk of late payments.
Once processing begins for each term, enrollment certifications should be submitted to the United States Department of Veterans Affairs within 4- 6 weeks. Students receive an automated notification from the VA when submissions are made. Please note, this processing time may be delayed due to holiday observations which include New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, Independence Day, Labor Day, and Christmas Day or the annual University closure for winter break, which occurs between the fall and spring semesters. Please anticipate additional processing time during these periods. As long as applicants submit all required UIC forms and Veterans Affairs documents, you should be all set. Once submitted/uploaded, if we notice any missing information, forms or documents, we will notify you. Thank you for your patience.






            CONTENT
          Heading link



 
Copy link



GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website at https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill/. 



      IVG, ING, Deceased, Disabled, and MIA POW Veterans' Dependents Scholarship
    



      New Student Veteran To Do List
    







            Forms
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Application Process
                    

                The type of benefit, waiver, grant or scholarship determines which UIC office administers aid on behalf of students.
Students must apply for and obtain official documents affirming benefit eligibility.
            









                            Application and Forms Guidance
                    

                Need help figuring out which benefit to use, what documents are required or how to apply?
            









                            2022-2023 Annual Benefit Form
                    

                CH 30, 31, 33, 35, 1606 & 1607 beneficiaries submit once per academic year.
            









            Forms
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Download Advisor Verification Form
                    

                This form needs to be completed by CH 30, 31, 33, 35, 1606 & 1607 students every semester.
            









                            Upload Advisor Verification & Other Forms
                    

                Upload your signed Academic Advisor GI Bill® Verification form; a signed form is required for enrollment certification.
            









                            Benefit Appeal Form
                    

                Report call to active duty, mitigating circumstances for W grades, request parent letters, and more.
            












Student Veterans


Back to main content









Benefits and Forms 


Education Benefits 

LAS Online Pathways 

Benefits for Dependents 



Get Connected 


Student Veterans of America – UIC Chapter 

CISAR Student Veterans Center 

Student Veterans Association 

Celebrate 



Veterans Week 2022 

Stars & Stripes Newsletters 


Stars & Stripes Newsletters Archive 



Staff & Faculty 

FAQs 

Contact Student Veteran Affairs 













 
University of Illinois Chicago











































DOS Offices


Career Services


Student Employment


Counseling Center


Wellness Center




For Employees


SA Human Resources


SA Technology


GoTime Log-in


The Pulse




Safety


UIC Police


Office of Access & Equity


Contact-US


Giving








Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 1200 West Harrison St., 3030 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-4857
dos@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












