 












                            FAQs | Office of the Dean of Students | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of the Dean of Students

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Our Work, Mission and Values
                




                  Our Team
                




                  Student Handbook
                




                  Diversity Education
                




                  Policies
                




                  Student Government
                




                  Religious Workers’ Association
                




                  Request a Presentation
                




                  Location
                









        Assistance
      


Expand Assistance menu











                  Academic Concerns
                




                  Health & Personal Concerns
                




                  Campus Life
                




                  Faculty & Staff Resources
                




                  U & I Care
                









        Community Standards
      


Expand Community Standards menu











                  UIC Covid-19 Guidance
                




                  Academic Integrity
                




                  Personal & Community Integrity
                




                  Community Standards Forms
                




                  Community Standards Process
                




                  Get Involved
                




                  Record Requests
                




                  Assessment & Reports
                









        Student Veterans
      


Expand Student Veterans menu











                  Benefits and Forms
                




                  Get Connected
                




                  Veterans Week 2022
                




                  Stars & Stripes Newsletters
                




                  Staff & Faculty
                




                  FAQs
                




                  Contact Student Veteran Affairs
                









        Student Legal
      



Eyebrow menu


Diversity Education


U & I Care


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of the Dean of Students
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Office of the Dean of Students


Student Veterans


FAQs






FAQs






            FAQs
          Heading link



 
Copy link






                            Where do I begin? Who do I contact?
                    








            Where do I begin? Who do I contact?
          

All students, regardless of veteran status must contact the Office of Admissions to begin the admissions process and to answer all questions about enrollment.
UIC is committed to a fair and balanced review process that utilizes a multitude of factors in an effort to select the students who are best equipped to transition to and graduate in four years from UIC.
Freshman Admission
Freshman admission is for students under 24 credit hours and the full completion of high school courses. For further details, please click here.
Transfer Admission
For fullest consideration, a transfer grade point average of 2.50/4.00 on the basis of all transferable work attempted is recommended. Transcripts should illustrate a minimum of 24 semester or 36 quarter hours of transferable college classroom credit at the time of application. College and departmental requirements vary. For further details, please click here.







                            Who do I contact about my educational benefits?
                    








            Who do I contact about my educational benefits?
          

The Office of Student Veteran Affairs handles all inquiries about educational benefits, including the G.I. Bill® (Montgomery, Post 9/11, 1606, 1607, and Vocational Rehab) and Illinois Veteran’s Grant and Illinois National Guard Grant.
Should you have any questions, don’t hesitate to contact us at studentveteransaff@uic.edu.







                            For my educational benefits, what do I need to get started?
                    








            For my educational benefits, what do I need to get started?
          

The first step would be to contact the Department of Veteran Affairs (888-442-4551) to inquire about the benefit that you qualify for. Once you are admitted to the university, submit your letter of eligibility, along with a copy of your DD-214 to the Office of Student Veteran Affairs using our online application located under the Benefits and Forms link.
http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill/
Toll-free: 1-888-GI-BILL1 or 1-888-442-4551







                            How long does it take for my benefits to be processed?
                    








            How long does it take for my benefits to be processed?
          

A completed file with a completed Academic Advisor form, G.I. Bill® Benefits form, letters of eligibility and DD-214 can be processed within 10 business days. Each semester, students must have their Academic Advisor form completed and signed by an academic advisor for enrollment to be reported to the VA.
The VA is the last payer for tuition benefits and can take up to 4 to 6 weeks to send payment back to the university. BAH (Basic Housing Allowance) payments go directly to the student and usually arrive to a student’s account on the 1st of each month. To set up direct deposit with the VA, the student will need to contact the VA directly.







                            Are there any organizations or activities for veterans on campus?
                    








            Are there any organizations or activities for veterans on campus?
          

UIC’s Student Veterans Association is very active with programs throughout the academic year. The Office of Student Veteran Affairs conducts activities throughout the year to help foster a positive academic experience for our student veterans and partners with with Jesse Brown VA Hospital of offer workshops and information sessions.







                            Is there a special admissions process for veterans?
                    








            Is there a special admissions process for veterans?
          

There isn’t a different process for veteran students. Student veterans adhere to the same admissions requirements as all students at the University of Illinois at Chicago.














Student Veterans


Back to main content









Benefits and Forms 


Education Benefits 

LAS Online Pathways 

Benefits for Dependents 



Get Connected 


Student Veterans of America – UIC Chapter 

CISAR Student Veterans Center 

Student Veterans Association 

Celebrate 



Veterans Week 2022 

Stars & Stripes Newsletters 


Stars & Stripes Newsletters Archive 



Staff & Faculty 

FAQs 

Contact Student Veteran Affairs 













 
University of Illinois Chicago











































DOS Offices


Career Services


Student Employment


Counseling Center


Wellness Center




For Employees


SA Human Resources


SA Technology


GoTime Log-in


The Pulse




Safety


UIC Police


Office of Access & Equity


Contact-US


Giving








Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 1200 West Harrison St., 3030 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-4857
dos@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












