



















Contact Graduate and Professional Admissions | UIC Admissions































 




Explore UIC
Visit Virtually
Apply
 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Contact Graduate and Professional Admissions






Home
Graduate & Professional
You are here
 

Home
Graduate & Professional
You are here
 



























Overview 

We recommend first checking our FAQ to see if your question has already been answered there. The Search feature at the top of the site may also help you find what you’re looking for.
For program-specific inquiries (apart from technical system issues) we recommend contacting the program directly
This includes program information packets, GRE/GMAT requirements, personal statements and other supplemental application requirements, assistantships and other aid, advising, course availability, etc.

International applicants should contact the Office of International Services (OIS) with inquiries concerning requested financial documents for visa processing and I-20 issuance.
Due to the volume of messages received and available staff, response time may take up to six business days during our peak application periods and around holidays.
You can also speak with a counselor in the Office of Graduate and Professional Admissions via Zoom. Zoom hours are 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. (CST) Monday-Friday.
 


 




Contact Form



Loading...








 














Visit Campus
Explore UIC
Contact Admissions


















UnderGraduate




Graduate & Professional 



 










Office of Admissions
Main Office
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350Contact UIC Admissions
 
Visitors Center
1220 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 413-1726
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161 Contact Undergraduate Admissions 
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.Contact Graduate and Professional Admissions
 


 






 













Privacy Statement
Nondiscrimination Statement
Site Map
Accessibility
Site Home
UIC Home
Login
Webmaster
Copyright © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of IllinoisFacebook
Twitter
YouTube
Accessibility




 

T



CookieSettings






