 












                            Students | Office for Advising Development | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office for Advising Development

Main Menu




        Professional Development
      


Expand Professional Development menu











                  UIC’S Advising Mission and Values
                




                  Events for Advisors
                




                  Training and Workshops
                




                  Advising Awards
                




                  Getting Involved
                









        Advising Resources
      


Expand Advising Resources menu











                  Resources for Remote Advising and COVID-19 Response
                




                  Tools and Tips
                




                  Advisor and Student Responsibilities
                




                  OAD News
                




                  External Links
                









        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  Staff
                




                  OAD Steering Committee
                




                  Ask About Advising
                









        Initiatives
      


Expand Initiatives menu











                  iAdvise
                




                  Early Alerts
                




                  Intercollege Transfer
                




                  Promoting Academic Progress Interventions
                




                  Students
                




                  Advising Leadership Council
                








Eyebrow menu


Undergraduate Affairs and Academic Programs


Ask UIC


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office for Advising Development
              









Students





      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Office for Advising Development


Initiatives


Students






Advising is an essential component of being a successful college student. Within this section of our advising website, you will find tips and information. Check out the Secrets to Your Success and information on Early Alerts and Midterm Grades.
There’s a lot of info here regarding advising. Don’t forget to check out your college’s website for more information and our larger advising network also provides quite a bit of information on their services.






            Identifying Your Advisor and Scheduling Appointments
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Academic advisors are professional staff who assist you with course selection, scheduling, degree requirements, administrative requirements, the interpretation of rules and regulations, and the utilization of campus resources. Academic advising is available to all UIC students. Your college determines and verifies that you have met all requirements for graduation.





            Find out more about advising...
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Applied Health Sciences (AHS)
                    

                Advising will be done virtually and you can get all the info you need here. AHS uses iAdvise for scheduling.
            









                            Business (CBA)
                    

                Advising will be done virtually. Go to Business Connect for info about undergrad programs. CBA uses iAdvise to schedule.
            









                            Architecture, Design and the Arts (CADA)
                    

                Advising is being done remotely. Go to their website to learn more. CADA uses iAdvise for scheduling.
            









                            Education (ED)
                    

                Advising is being done remotely. Use their website for extensive resources. ED uses iAdvise for scheduling.
            









                            Engineering (ENGR)
                    

                Advising is being done remotely. You can contact your advisor via email. Visit their website for more information.
            









                            Honors College (HONORS)
                    

                Advising is being done remotely and there are drop-in hours. Visit their website and iAdvise is used for scheduling.
            









                            Liberal Arts and Sciences (LAS)
                    

                Advising is being done remotely. iAdvise is used for all types of advising within the college.
            









                            Nursing (NURS)
                    

                Go to their website for more information on student resources. Advising is being done remotely.
            









                            School of Public Health (SPH)
                    

                Advising is being done remotely and advisors use iAdvise. Find out more at their website for undergraduates.
            









                            Urban Planning and Public Affairs (CUPPA)
                    

                Advising is being done remotely. You can visit their website for more information. CUPPA uses iAdvise for scheduling.
            










            iAdvise is your tool for Scheduling
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Most of our colleges and success units are using iAdvise for scheduling and communication. You should visit the my.UIC portal and access the Advising Tab, and then click on the iAdvise Portlet. In your Success Network you will find your advisor(s).





Access iAdvise to Schedule with Your Advisor








Students


Back to main content









Secrets to Your Success 


Support for Students on Academic Probation 

Tips for Maximizing your Advising Appointment 

Undergraduate Advising Directory: Colleges and Departments 



iAdvise 

Early Alerts Information for Students 

Midterms 


How to Prepare for Midterms 

Student Tips for Midterm Grades 



Information on Majors 

Minoring Outside Your College 

The Savvy Student's Guide to UIC 

Ask About Advising 












 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 601 South Morgan St., Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 312-996-3092
oad@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












