 















                            Cultural Centers | Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement | University of Illinois Chicago
                    



























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Advancing Racial Equity
                




                  Awards
                




                  Contact Us
                




                  Diversity Strategic Plan
                




                  Events
                




                  Leadership
                




                  News
                




                  Team
                









        Community
      


Expand Community menu











                  African American Advisory Council
                




                  Committees
                




                  Community Resources
                




                  Cultural Centers
                




                  Heritage Garden
                




                  Support the Ida B. Wells Scholarship Fund
                









        Education
      


Expand Education menu











                  “Acknowledge” is a Verb
                




                  Bias Reporting and Prevention
                




                  Data
                




                  Diversity Town Halls
                




                  The Equity Dashboard Project
                




                  Past Events and Programs
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Bridge to Faculty
                




                  Dialogue Initiative
                




                  Faculty Award Opportunities
                




                  Inclusive Classroom Initiative
                




                  STRategies for Inclusion, Diversity and Equity
                









        Students
      


Expand Students menu











                  Early Outreach Program
                




                  REAL Community
                




                  Resources
                




                  Undocumented Student Support
                








Eyebrow menu


Office of the Chancellor


Office of the Provost


Donate


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Office of Diversity, Equity & Engagement


Community


Cultural Centers






Cultural Centers



Centers for Cultural Understanding and Social Change
The seven Centers for Cultural Understanding and Social Change are a collaborative group that aims to make UIC a welcoming and inclusive place for all students, faculty and staff. The Centers are committed to student success, intercultural engagement, vibrant scholarship, and dynamic community partnerships.






            CCUSC Video
          Heading link



 
Copy link
















CCUSC +
First-Year Seminars






            News from the CCUSC
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Statement on Club Q Shooting
                    

                Tuesday, November 22, 2022
            












                            The UIC Gender and Sexuality Center is Hiring a Permanent Director! Application Deadline Extended to October 13
                    

                Thursday, September 29, 2022
            












                            UIC Symposium Empowers Global Conversations with Disability Cultural Centers
                    

                Tuesday, July 26, 2022
            







  View More News








            Events from the CCUSC
          Heading link



 
Copy link







Oct
14
2022







                            Write @ WLRC
                    

                Friday, 10:00 am - 2:00 pm
            

                Virtual & 1700 SSB (WLRC)
            








Nov
30
2022







                            Show and Tell Fall 2022 - Hikayat (StoryTelling)
                    

                Wednesday, 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm
            

                101 Taft Hall
            








  View More Events







Submit an Event!






            x
          Heading link



 
Copy link






The Office of Diversity is in solidarity with all our campus community, and people in every community and country experiencing this global health crisis. Despite the recent developments concerning COVID-19, the Office of Diversity is committed to continue serving the UIC campus and Chicago community while protecting our guests and employees from potentially compromising physical contact. During this time, we encourage you to use the information below to reach representatives from our offices during normal business hours of 9 am to 5 pm.






            CCUSC
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Use the tabs below to zoom in on the map and find more information on each center. Click here to download the map of the CCUSCs!







                                African American Cultural Center
                          


                                Arab American Cultural Center
                          


                                Asian American Resource and Cultural Center
                          


                                Disability Cultural Center
                          


                                Gender and Sexuality Center
                          


                                Latino Cultural Center
                          


                                Women's Leadership and Resource Center
                          








            African American Cultural Center
          




The African-American Cultural Center (AACC) supports the academic and diversity missions of the University by engaging UIC faculty, staff, students, community partners, and other stakeholders in programs and initiatives that contextualize, highlight, present, and critically examine Black diaspora traditions, histories, and experiences. We envision the Center as a safe, brave, and inclusive hub for collaboration, creative and scholarly practice, engaged learning, service, and social justice.

Curates, produces, and sponsors exhibitions, performances, film screenings, open-mic poetry gatherings, lecture-demonstrations, dance, storytelling, visual and performing arts workshops, and projects.
Coordinates and supervises internships, supports student and postdoctoral research, and lends its expertise to a number of collaborative programs and initiatives.
Provides gallery and library spaces for quiet study, working groups, meetings, and presentations.

Contact:
2nd floor, Addams Hall
830 S. Halsted St.
Website: aacc.uic.edu
Call: 312-996-9549



      Click here to visit their website and learn more!
    



      Annual Report 2016 – 2017
    












            Arab American Cultural Center
          




As the first Arab American Cultural Center on a college campus in the United States, the ARABAMCC is a welcoming space for Arab and Muslim students seeking to build community and anyone interested in fostering solidarity and cultural diversity on campus.

Strengthens campus communities through artistic and cultural exhibits and programs, facilitates discussions on current issues, and hosts community-building activities.
Expands alliances across campus with a focus on social justice, dignity, and mutual respect.
Shares educational resources about Arabs, Muslims, and Arab and Muslim Americans with the UIC community.

Contact:
101 Taft Hall
826 S. Morgan St.
Website: arabamcc.uic.edu
Call: 312-413-3253



      Click here to visit their website and learn more!
    



      Annual Reports
    












            Asian American Resource and Cultural Center
          




The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center (AARCC) opened in Spring of 2005 as a result of student efforts to ensure that UIC supports the needs of Asian Americans. AARCC promotes the intellectual and personal growth of UIC students, staff, and faculty; advocates for greater access, equity, and inclusion of Asian Americans; and educates the UIC community about Asian Americans.

Offers social, cultural, and educational programs that promote knowledge of and fosters engagement with issues relating to Asian Americans and Asian American Studies.
Develops co-curricular programs that enhance the UIC experience and provide opportunities for integrated learning and development.
Collaborates and consults especially with Global Asian Studies (GLAS) and UIC’s Asian American and Native Pacific Islander-Serving Institution (AANAPISI) Initiative, as well as with other campus units, and serves as a resource for the campus to engage with Chicago’s Asian American communities and organizations.

Contact:
723 W. Maxwell
Website: aarcc.uic.edu
Call: 312-413-9569



      Click here to visit their website and learn more!
    



      Annual Reports
    












            Disability Cultural Center
          




The Disability Cultural Center (DCC) was established as a new Center in the Spring of 2018 to continue engaging in cultural, social, and educational programming, and community outreach to advance understanding of the disability experience as a source of pride, knowledge, and artistic expression.  The DCC is guided by the understanding that identity is multi-dimensional, involving the intersections of disability, race, class, gender, sexuality, religious affiliation, and geographic location, among others.

Provides a gathering space on campus, a safe place where the disability community is welcomed, respected and included as equal members of the campus community. We welcome students, faculty, staff, and other community members with any identity, including individuals who identify as nondisabled.
Offers educational programs to highlight the many historical, civic, artistic, social contributions of the disability community, and takes part in collaborative programming with the other Centers for Cultural Understanding and Social Change (CCUSC), to infuse disability perspectives into our collective cultural programs.
Fosters relationships with local, regional, national and international organizations committed to promoting intersectional understanding of disability culture.
Works together with the DCC Campus Committee, recently appointed by the Vice-Provost of Diversity Dr. Amalia Pallares and collaborates with the Chancellor’s Committee on the Status of Persons with Disabilities (CCSPD).

Contact:
235 Behavioral Science Building
1007 W. Harrison St.
Website: dcc.uic.edu
Call: 312-355-7050



      Click here to visit their website and learn more!
    












            Gender and Sexuality Center
          




“The Gender and Sexuality Center (GSC) promotes deeply engaged and life affirming thinking, learning, and action for students, faculty, staff, alumni, and community members who identify as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Questioning, Intersex, and Asexual (LGBTQIA ). Through programs, initiatives, events, and workshops, the GSC creates a more inclusive campus and catalyzes positive social change in the world.
Underlying the Center’s work is an understanding of intersecting identities and the multiple layers of diversity within LGBTQIA identities including race, ethnicity, class, disability, geography, immigration status, and religious/spiritual affiliation. Our programs are designed to cultivate student success, promote research, expand opportunities for intercultural engagement, and build robust community partnerships.
Our spaces consist of the GSC Community Lounge (181 BSB), GSC Flex Space (183 BSB), and staff administrative offices (1172 & 1180 BSB).

GSC is the oldest LGBTQIA center at a university/college within the city of Chicago. 2020 marks the 25th anniversary of its founding.


The GSC Community Lounge (181 BSB) is a dynamic space for UIC students, faculty, and staff to engage in thoughtful dialogue, take a moment to pause/breathe, browse & check out books from the GSC library focusing on LGBTQIA themes, access computers & printing, socialize, and participate in special events.


GSC Flex Space (183 BSB) is a multi-faceted space that functions as a gallery with curated exhibitions and used to study, conduct meetings, coordinate classroom engagement, and host special programs.


Annual programming and initiatives include:

Open Houses in the Fall & Spring
Therapy Groups for LGBQ and Trans/GNC Students
Annual Lavender Graduation for LGBTQIA Graduates
Navigating Allyship & Brown Bag Professional Development Workshops
Affinity Spaces: Queer & Trans People of Color (QTPOC), T-Time (Trans, GNC, Non-Binary) “



Contact: 
181-183 Behavioral Science Building
1007 W. Harrison St.
Website: gsc.uic.edu
Call: 312-413-8619



      Click here to visit their website and learn more!
    












            Rafael Cintrón Ortiz Latino Cultural Center
          




The Latino Cultural Center (LCC) engages campus and local communities to deepen understanding of the diverse cultural heritages and identities of Latinx, issues affecting their lives, and creative solutions they are using to improve community life. The LCC offers engaged learning co-curricular opportunities that feature cultural and artistic expressions, intercultural and civic dialogues, scholarly presentations, and first-voice stories.

Offers social and environmental justice Civic Dialogues and Tours of our mural El Despertar de las Américas (the largest contemporary indoor mural in Chicago) to connect UIC courses material to community challenges and solutions.
Connects UIC campus with community leaders, artists, and cultural institutions through public programs including: Zona Abierta, Civic Cinema, Noche de Poetas, ARTivism, and Special Programs.
Coordinates and supervises internships for the Heritage Garden and lends its expertise in collaborative projects including L@S GANAS for STEM students.

Contact:
Lecture Center B2
803 S. Morgan St.
Website: latinocultural.uic.edu
Call: 312-996-3095



      Click here to visit their website and learn more!
    



      Annual Report 2017 – 2018
    












            Women's Leadership and Resource Center
          




Through institutional interventions, support, advocacy, and education, our mission at the Women’s Leadership and Resource Center (WLRC) is to create a welcoming and equitable environment in which women are able to pursue their educational and career aspirations, free from institutional barriers, oppression, and violence.

Hosts programs that highlight women’s lived experiences and recognize their contributions as contemporary, cultural and historical leaders.
Promotes gender equity through programming that raises awareness of women’s and gender issues, develops women’s leadership, and celebrates women’s accomplishments and contributions.
Provides resources as well as individual consultation on issues such as sexual harassment and sexual assault.

Contact:
1700 Student Services Building
1200 W. Harrison St.
Website: wlrc.uic.edu
Call: 312-413-1025



      Click here to visit their website and learn more!
    



      Annual Report 2015 – 2016
    

















Community


Back to main content









African American Advisory Council 

Committees 

Community Resources 

Cultural Centers 


CCUSC + First-Year Seminars 



Heritage Garden 

Support the Ida B. Wells Scholarship Fund 













 
University of Illinois Chicago











































UIC Quick Guide


U and I Care Network


Dean of Students


Counseling Center


Cultural Centers


Office for Access and Equity


Resources for Undocumented Students


Office of International Services


Supplier Diversity


For further access to UIC resources




Policies


UIC Nondiscrimination Policy




Footer


Contact Us


Join Our Mailing List








Button Menu


Donate






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 2631 UH Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 312-355-1308
Fax: 312-996-5067
diversity@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












