 












                            Office of External Fellowships | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of External Fellowships

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  News
                




                  Our Staff
                




                  Our Mission and Values
                




                  For Faculty and Staff
                




                  FAQ
                




                  Join Our Mailing List
                




                  Contact Us
                









        Preparing
      


Expand Preparing menu











                  Getting Started
                




                  Know Your Timeline
                









        Applying
      


Expand Applying menu











                  Application Components
                




                  Selection Criteria
                




                  Tell Us You Are Interested
                









        Fellowships
      




        Recent Recipients
      



Eyebrow menu


Ask UIC


Undergraduate Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of External Fellowships
              


















What was formerly the Office of External Fellowships (OEF) has been reconfigured into the new Office of Undergraduate Research and External Fellowships (UREF)! Our websites will be undergoing some changes in the near future, so stay tuned!
The external fellowships side of the office will continue to provide the same level of in-depth fellowships advising to students and alumni.
We provide extensive advisement and assistance to current UIC undergraduate and professional school students, and to recent alumni, in finding and applying for nationally- and internationally-competitive fellowships, scholarships, and grants. From Fulbright Grants to Goldwater Scholarships and many others, UIC students have received competitive fellowships that have helped them pursue academic and career interests here in Chicago and around the globe. OEF can help you pursue these opportunities too.
For Fall 2022, we continue to hold many advising appointments via Zoom or Webex; for in-person meetings we will require masking and distancing, at minimum, for the safety of our campus community.
We help you explore the wide range of fellowship opportunities to determine which are best suited to your academic and career plans. Once you’ve found opportunities that are a good fit for you, and vice versa, we advise you closely through the whole process, so that your application is as strong as it can possibly be.
We offer holistic guidance on communication about academic achievement, co-curricular involvement, life experiences, and financial need. We help students present themselves clearly and effectively for awards that best suit their needs. Students are welcome at any point in their degree program, and are encouraged to plan ahead. It’s never too early to start!
 








            Quick Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Map pin icon






Hours / Location






Edit icon







Join Our Mailing List






Check icon






FAQ











            Follow Us
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Follow Us

















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter





















Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 800 UH, Chicago IL 60607-7128
Phone: (312) 355-2477
oef@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












