 












                            First-Year Seminars | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































First-Year Seminars

Main Menu




        Instructional Resources
      


Expand Instructional Resources menu











                  Campus Resources
                




                  Curriculum Development
                









        Professional Development
      




        Outstanding Instructor Award
      



Eyebrow menu


Undergraduate Affairs and Academic Programs


Ask UIC


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                First-Year Seminars
              


























            What Are First-Year Seminars?
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The first year of college brings new experiences and new opportunities. Students become part of a campus community and connect with one another, faculty, staff, and campus organizations. They explore their majors and begin to develop the skills that will serve them throughout their studies, in the workplace, and in life. This transition is often facilitated in first-year seminars – 1-credit or 2-credit courses allowing students to explore specific topics or fields, or required by specific majors.








            Who Takes First-Year Seminars?
          Heading link



 
Copy link



91% of the incoming, first-year students at UIC enrolled in a first-year seminar course in fall 2021. Students who are in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (LAS), and who are not in the Honors 101 seminar, most often choose LAS 110 “Experience UIC” when taking a seminar. Students in other colleges at UIC generally are required to take a specific first-year seminar (or two-course sequence), and they will be advised into those courses for the appropriate semester.








            What Do I Learn in a First-Year Seminar?
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The content and goals vary by course, but the most common elements include:

Interaction with other students and the advisors or faculty who teach the course
Support in the process of transitioning to college
Connection to campus resources
Developing foundational skills in inquiry, thinking, writing, and collaboration
Opportunities for discussion and reflection, including in regard to values, diversity, and community
Exploration of majors, fields, or careers








            First-Year Seminars
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Applied Health Sciences Seminar I
                    

                (AHS 100: Open to all first-year AHS students.)
            












                            Rehabilitation Sciences Student Success Seminar
                    

                (AHS 101: open only to AHS majors; required for Rehabilitation Sciences majors)
            












                            Business First-Year Seminar
                    

                (BA 101: Required for all UIC Business first-year students in their first semester).
            












                            Basics of Neuroscience
                    

                (BIOS 184: Departmental approval required; cross-listed in Psychology and Philosophy)
            












                            Disability and Human Development Seminar
                    

                (DHD 100: Required for all Disability and Human Development first-year students.)
            












                            First-Year Dialogue Seminar
                    

                (DLG 120: Open to all students)
            












                            College Connection I/II
                    

                (ED 151/152: Two-course sequence open only to first-year students in the College of Education)
            












                            Engineering Orientation
                    

                (ENGR 100: Required for College of Engineering first-year students)
            












                            Human Development and Learning Academic Success
                    

                (EPSY 150: Required 8-week course for all new HDL students, first-year and transfer.)
            












                            Global Asian Studies Seminar
                    

                (GLAS 105: Required for first-year students in the Asian American Mentor Program)
            












                            Freshmen Orientation Seminar
                    

                (HON 101: Required for Honors students who are not in other required seminars)
            












                            Intro to Interdisciplinary Practice in the Arts
                    

                (ISA 100: required for all incoming first-year students in the College)
            












                            Kinesiology and Nutrition: First-Year Seminar
                    

                (KN 100: required for Kinesiology majors)
            












                            Kinesiology and Nutrition: First-Year Seminar
                    

                (KN 100: required for Nutrition majors)
            












                            Experience UIC
                    

                (LAS 110: Open to LAS students)
            












                            Foundations for Public Health
                    

                (PUBH 105: Open to first-year students in the Public Health-Undecided [Pre-Public Health] program.)
            












                            Urban and Public Affairs Seminar I/II
                    

                (UPA 120/121: Two-course sequence for entering CUPPA students with fewer than 24 credit hours)
            



















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 nmhadavi@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












