 












                            Student Success Initiatives | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Student Success Initiatives

Main Menu



Eyebrow menu


Undergraduate Affairs and Academic Programs


Ask UIC


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Student Success Initiatives
              


















At the University of Illinois Chicago, we are committed to providing opportunities for all students–opportunities to get into college, to thrive while on campus, and to be prepared for successful careers in a constantly changing global society. Since 2012, the entire campus has been engaged in a collective effort to explore ways that will enhance our students’ success. Every unit on campus has been involved as we have developed, nurtured, and maintained student success programs, conducted research related to student success, and sought collaborations with a variety of external partners, including community-based organizations, Chicago Public Schools, City Colleges of Chicago, and many others. The UIC community understands that student success is “everyone’s” responsibility.







            Selected Student Success Initiatives at UIC:
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            iAdvise
                    

                A system that promotes shared responsibility for student educational progress and success
            












                            Early Alerts
                    

                An early intervention program that helps students overcome barriers to college success
            












                            Student Noncognitive Assets and Advising
                    

                A project that uses noncognitive factors to help advisors support individual students in achieving success
            












                            Summer College
                    

                Tuition-free programming for incoming, first-year students aimed at easing the transition from high school to college
            












                            Finish in Four
                    

                A campaign for students to take 15 credits a semester and finish their degrees in four years
            












                            Accelerate Your Success Program
                    

                A summer scholarship for students who use the Summer term for stacking up the credit hours needed for timely graduation.
            












                            First-Year Seminars
                    

                Courses that help students transition to UIC and connect with instructors, peers, resources, and academic programs
            












                            Transition Coaching
                    

                Promotes access, engagement and persistence for students matriculating to or currently enrolled at UIC
            












                            Project Management for Student Success Initiatives
                    

                Supports collective change management at UIC, focusing on improvement in undergraduate retention and graduation.
            












                            Flames Leadership Network
                    

                Identifies students who have strong credentials, promise to succeed, leadership potential, and helps them thrive at UIC
            












                            L@SGANAS
                    

                Latin@s Gaining Access to Networks for Advancement in Science
            












                            LARES Leaders
                    

                Promotes leadership development through civic engagement and awareness of Latinx policies in the community.
            












                            Social Belonging and the Transition to College
                    

                Class session built around a video that features UIC students discussing their challenges in transitioning to college.
            












                            Student Success Innovation Fund
                    

                Internal grant competition seeking proposals that explore innovative approaches to enhancing student success.
            












                            Promoting Academic Progress
                    

                Aims to help students avoid financial aid cancellations due to academic progress issues.
            












                            Summer Bridge Programs at UIC
                    

                Summer bridge programs for high school and admitted first-year UIC students
            












                            First Day Project
                    

                Focuses on improving the messages that students receive through syllabi and the first day of class.
            












                            Business Scholars – BAC Mentoring Program
                    

                Connects Business Scholars with faculty, Dean's Business Advisory Council and alumni who share experiences and resources
            












                            Guaranteed Paid Internship Program-College of Eng.
                    

                Gives incoming fall freshman students in engineering the opportunity to serve as paid interns for the following summer.
            












                            iLEAD Professional Development Program
                    

                Improvisation training in the classroom builds 
confidence, quick thinking, and interpersonal skills 
at UIC Business.
            












                            First-at-LAS
                    

                Celebrates strengths, supports academic success, and fosters networks for LAS first-generation students.
            












                            WISE-Chicago
                    

                WISE-Chicago is a supportive group of intellectual women who are passionate about STEM fields and who come together.
            












                            Women in Engineering Programs (WIEP)
                    

                A resource for prospective, new, and continuing students at UIC College of Engineering.
            












                            Educational and Research Training Collaborative
                    

                A group of faculty mentors and undergraduate students engaged in a long-term, intensive research mentoring experience
            












                            Break Through Tech Chicago
                    

                Propels women into higher education and tech careers, with the goal of achieving gender equality in tech.
            












                            President’s Award Program (PAP)
                    

                A Scholarship Program for Campus Diversity
            



















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 nmhadavi@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














