 












                            Undergraduate Research | University of Illinois Chicago
                    
























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Undergraduate Research

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  What We Do
                




                  Who We Are
                




                  How to Reach Us
                









        For Students
      




        For Faculty/Staff Researchers
      




        Opportunities
      


Expand Opportunities menu











                  Research
                




                  Presentation Venues
                




                  Publication
                









        Donate
      



Eyebrow menu


Undergraduate Affairs and Academic Programs


Ask UIC


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Undergraduate Research
              


















Undergraduates who engage in supervised research, scholarship, and creative endeavors experience positive personal, academic, and professional benefits beyond those provided by other college experiences. Our staff offers UIC students from all backgrounds and in all majors information and resources that help them find, secure, and succeed in such experiences–on and off campus and nationally and internationally. We also support faculty and staff in mentoring students and garnering funding for their projects. We are home to a number of signature initiatives, including the Undergraduate Research Experience opportunity database and the Chancellor’s Undergraduate Research Award, and a partner with campus units on several others.
Advising:

Students who would like to consult with or receive advising from the Office of Undergraduate Research and External Fellowships are encouraged to contact us by phone at (312) 355-2477, by email at our@uic.edu, or to attend “no appointment necessary” office drop-in hours, located in 802 University Hall:

Tuesdays 10:30am-12:30pm
Wednesdays 10:30am-12:30pm



Virtual Drop-in Hours:

Students who would like to meet on-line can use this link to meet with office staff:
https://uic.zoom.us/j/89548524487?pwd=bGpOQUhCU0RVejJkakE4RnZTUjZ3dz09

Thursdays 4:00pm-6:00pm










            Home Page
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            For Students
                    

                Opportunities and advice, search the URE database, FAQs.
            












                            For Faculty/Staff Researchers
                    

                Resources and advice, register in the URE database, FAQs.
            












                            OUR Programs
                    

                Undergraduate Research Experience database, Chancellor's Undergraduate Research Award, Posters Under the Dome, more.
            












                            Join the UIC Research Experience
                    

                Students: search for a project or supervisor. Faculty: list your project and find an RA.  Apply for the CURA here.
            












                            Additional Opportunities
                    

                Conduct research, present, or publish around UIC or around the globe.
            












                            Give to the OUR
                    

                Support the undergraduate research activities of UIC's students today.
            











            News and Events
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            News
                    









                            Events
                    











Undergraduate Research Forum








            Follow us
          Heading link



 
Copy link





Follow us





Follow us




















 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Quick Links


Undergraduate Research Experience Database


Chancellor's  Undergraduate Research Award


Interdisciplinary Undergraduate Research Journal


Student Research Forum






Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 2720 University Hall, Chicago, IL 60607 (MC 103)
Phone: (312) 355-3586
our@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












