 












                            ID Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































ID Center

Main Menu




        Identification Cards
      


Expand Identification Cards menu











                  Get an i-card
                




                  Lost Card or Stolen Card
                




                  Fees
                




                  UINs
                




                  Visitor Cards
                




                  Name Badges
                









        Dragon Dollar$ and Flames Fare
      


Expand Dragon Dollar$ and Flames Fare menu











                  Using Dragon Dollar$ and Flames Fare
                




                  Purchase Locations & Fees
                




                  Terms & Conditions
                




                  Meal Plans
                




                  Add Dragon Dollar$ and Flames Fare Online
                









        CTA U-PASS
      


Expand CTA U-PASS menu











                  U-PASS Alternate Pickup
                




                  Troubleshoot U-Pass
                




                  About U-PASS
                




                  Eligibility
                




                  History
                




                  U-PASS @ CTA Website
                




                  U-Pass FAQ’s
                




                  UIC Law U-PASS Info
                









        FAQ
      


Expand FAQ menu











                  Identification Cards FAQ
                




                  Dragon Dollar$ & Meal Plans FAQ’s
                




                  U-Pass FAQ’s
                








Eyebrow menu


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                ID Center
              


















SCE ID Center is open 8:30A-5:00P, M-F for i-card issuance and pick up (submit your photo online at link below) and UPass services.  Please continue to email idcenter@uic.edu or call 312-413-5940 for inquires.  Photos submitted via email to idcenter@uic.edu will be rejected.  Patrons not able to use SubmitMyPhoto should visit the SCE office in person to have a photo taken for an ID card.  


SubmitMyPhoto allows eligible university community members to upload their own photo for use on their i‐card. SubmitMyPhoto is open to new and returning employees and students, for new and replacement i‐cards. Mailing of i‐cards is discontinued. Please visit https://go.uillinois.edu/SubmitMyPhoto for more information.
We encourage patrons needing i-cards to first attempt to submit a photo online using SubmitMyPhoto.  Cards will normally be ready for pick up the next business day or sooner. If you cannot submit a photo, please contact idcenter@uic.edu for more information or visit our office to have your card issued in person. Office visitors are expected to observe distancing measures whenever possible and wear a mask in accordance with campus policy.
 

Student Center West ID Center will remain closed until further notice.

 
Our Mission
The mission of the ID Center is to support the university community with a standardized and convenient form of identification. The ID Center strives to equip the card as a means to provide access to related university systems and services. A dedicated staff is committed to serving all customers in an efficient and courteous manner. The ID Center will endeavor to bring expanded uses of the card through advances in technology and innovation.
What we do
The ID Center provides a one-stop shop for university students‚ faculty‚ staff and visitors identification card needs. We directly support the production of i-cards‚ visitor cards‚ the Dragon Dollar$ program‚ the CTA U-Pass program‚ and provide assistance with all facets of using your university issued ID on campus.







            Contact Information for Main ID Center
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            CTA U-PASS
                    

                Your U-Pass provides you unlimited rides on the CTA during your enrollment as a full-time student at the University.
            












                            Identification Cards
                    

                Your i-card is your official permanent ID card and will be used as long as you attend or are employed by the University.
            












                            Dragon Dollar$
                    

                The Dragon Dollar$ program is the official campus debit account linked to your i-card.
            











            Location
          Heading link



 
Copy link







Main ID Center 





            750 S. Halsted St., 124 SCE, Chicago, Illinois 60607, MC 049

Monday - Friday 8:30 AM -5:00 PM

Phone: (312) 413-5940

Email: idcenter@uic.edu

          






















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 idcenter@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












