 












                            Scholarships | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Scholarships

Main Menu




        Scholarships and Awards
      


Expand Scholarships and Awards menu











                  Information Sessions
                




                  UIC Scholarships
                




                  External Scholarships
                




                  Additional Scholarship Resources
                









        FAQ
      




        Staff
      




        Contact Us
      


Expand Contact Us menu











                  Join Our Mailing List
                




                  Student Information Form
                








Eyebrow menu


Financial Aid


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Scholarships
              


















UIC Community Notification of COVID – 19 and Student Financial Aid and Scholarships Office Contact Information
The Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships is open at our 1800 SSB location.
Please know that all financial aid counseling and scholarship staff are working to support all student needs. Scholarship staff may be reached via email to scholarshiphelp@uic.edu.
 
The Office of Scholarships assists current UIC undergraduate and professional school students with understanding and navigating the campus scholarship process and external opportunities. We do not award scholarships, and our services are available to current UIC undergraduates and professional students only.
We help students present themselves clearly and effectively for awards that best suit their needs. Our office can offer guidance on communication about academic achievement, co-curricular involvement, life experiences and financial need. Students are welcome at any point in their degree program, and are encouraged to plan ahead to prepare the strongest possible scholarship applications.
UIC undergraduate and professional school students interested in applying for nationally and internationally competitive scholarships, fellowships and external scholarship awards are encouraged to visit the Office of External Fellowships website.
UIC graduate students are encouraged to contact the Fellowships and Financial Aid Coordinator at the Graduate College. For more information related to funding for graduate degree programs or visit the Graduate College website.
 







            Special Note
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Hours & Location
                    









                            Subscribe
                    









                            FAQ
                    



















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 scholarshiphelp@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












