 












                            Writing Center | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Writing Center

Main Menu




        Make an Appointment
      


Expand Make an Appointment menu











                  Register for an account
                




                  Login to your account
                









        Our Mission
      




        Tutor Resource Website
      




        Student FAQs
      




        Instructor FAQs
      


Expand Instructor FAQs menu











                  Promoting the Writing Center to students
                









        Contact us
      


Expand Contact us menu











                  Hours & Location
                




                  Email & Phone
                









        Testimonials
      




        FAQs about Online Tutoring
      




        Tutor Alumni Profiles
      




        Faculty Newsletter
      




        Our Code of Conduct
      



Eyebrow menu


engl.uic.edu


+Give


Our Mission


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Writing Center
              


























            online
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Make an appointment here.
Fall hours:
Mondays 10am-5pm,
Tuesdays 10am-6pm and
6pm-7pm online only,
Wednesdays 9am-5pm and
5pm-7pm online only,
Thursdays 10am-5pm,
Fridays 11am-5pm,
Sundays, online only, 2pm-6pm.
We will be closed for Thanksgiving Break
from Thursday Nov. 24 to Sunday Nov. 27.
We will be open Monday Nov. 28 as usual.
Finals Week Hours:
Monday 12/5: 12pm-5pm
Tuesday 12/6: 12pm-6pm
Wednesday 12/7: 12pm-6pm
Thursday 12/8: 12pm-5pm
Friday 12/9: 12pm-4pm
We will close for the semester on Friday 12/9 at 4pm.
Spring tutoring will begin Wednesday, Jan 18.
You can make an appointment 3 ways:

In-person. You would meet with the tutor in 105 Grant Hall.
Online meeting. You would meet with the tutor in real time over the internet.
Or by Email. You would upload 3 pages of writing and the tutor would respond by email rather than meeting with you in real time.

To make an appointment, first register at uic.mywconline.com. When you log in, click on an available white square. If you don’t see a time free, please email wconlinehelp@gmail.com. During daytime hours, you can call the Writing Center at 312-413-2206.
For online meetings, go back to uic.mywconline.com, click your appointment, and then “JOIN ONLINE SESSION.”
In successful sessions, both you and the tutor participate.
For EMAIL tutoring, when you make the appointment, you will need to attach some writing for the tutor to look at. You may attach up to 3 double-spaced pages per appointment. Feedback on your writing will be sent to you by 8pm on the day your appointment is scheduled.
Our code of conduct.
 
If you need help:
Email us at wconlinehelp@gmail.com
Daytime phone: 312-413-2206
See our FAQs about Online Tutoring
View this Video on how to make appointments.







Make an Online Appointment








            Welcome to the Writing Center Video: what we do and how it all works online!
          Heading link



 
Copy link

























            Get Individual Support for all Your Writing
          Heading link



 
Copy link



ANY WRITING: We’ll work with you on research, personal statements, lab reports, memos, class assignments, applications, or whatever you have.
ANY STAGE: We can help you develop a draft or, if you do not have writing yet, we can help you get started.
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT: You can make an appointment three ways. 1. In-person. You would meet with the tutor in 105 Grant Hall.  2. Online. You would meet with the tutor in real time over the internet.  3. By Email. You would upload 3 pages of writing and the tutor would respond by email.
You can make up to 3 appointments per week.
QUESTIONS?  NEED HELP BOOKING OR JOINING AN ONLINE APPOINTMENT? Email: wconlinehelp@gmail.com
Daytime phone: 312-413-2206


      Hours
    















            Testimonial feedback from a Writing Center user:
          Heading link



 
Copy link



“This was an amazing experience as someone who came here for the first time. My tutor was very down-to-earth and gave me much better feedback than my professor and classmates. I feel more confident on finishing up my paper after our session here than weeks of class. 10/10 will come back if I have another paper.”


      Read more testimonials from students who've used the Writing Center
    









            Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Student FAQs
                    












                            Instructor FAQs
                    












                            FAQs about online tutoring
                    












                            Contact Us
                    












                            Other Tutoring Resources
                    



















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 703 S Morgan, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: Monday-Thursday 11am to 6pm: 312-413-2206
wconlinehelp@gmail.com

 




Social Media Accounts










			Conversations at the Writing Center
		






















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














