 












                            Graduate Student Council | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.











UIC Logo






Student Organizations



Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        


















UIC Logo






Student Organizations




Graduate Student Council

Main Menu




        Awards
      


Expand Awards menu











                  Project Awards
                




                  Travel Awards
                




                  Travel Award FAQs
                




                  Conference Awards
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Events Calendar
                




                  Upcoming Events
                




                  All Events
                









        Resources
      


Expand Resources menu











                  Meeting Agendas & Minutes
                




                  Additional Resources
                









        GSC Members
      


Expand GSC Members menu











                  GSC Officers
                




                  Departmental Representatives
                




                  Executive Committee Members
                




                  Join the Executive Committee!
                









        Contact Us
      



Eyebrow menu


Home


Awards


Resources


Calendar


Events


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Graduate Student Council
              


























            Our Mission Statement
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is the governing Graduate Student Body consisting of representatives from all degree-granting programs in the Graduate College.
Addressing the specific needs of graduate students, GSC organizes academic seminars and workshops, supports students with travel and project awards, unites them with meaningful social and cultural events, and represents the UIC graduate student body in the many different organizations and events.








            Welcome
          Heading link



 
Copy link



We are thrilled to welcome you to the 2022/2023 year of service in the UIC Graduate Student Council.  The council will gather in person on October 5th, for the first time since the pandemic.  We are maintaining a room capacity and will proceed with meeting invitations in a phased approach.  The first group that will receive an invitation includes officers, executive committee members, and primary representatives.  This group will have 48 hours to rsvp and the invitation will then be opened to alternative representatives.  Once capacity is met, respondents will be waitlisted.
The meeting will begin on Wednesday, October 5th at 4:45 pm with check-in, business promptly at 5 pm, and conclude at 7 pm with an executive committee member meeting following at 7:15 pm.  Invitations, RSVPs, and meeting check-in will run exclusively through UIC Connection.  There will be no option to attend the meeting without pre-registration on UIC Connection.
Group 1 invitations will be sent on Monday, September 12th, and group 2 invitations will be sent on Wednesday, September 14th.  Registration will close at 9 am on Monday, September 26th.








            GSC Meetings for 2022-2023
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The Graduate Student Council will convene for monthly general body meetings on the first Wednesday of each month from 5 pm-7 pm beginning in October with Executive Committee meetings to immediately follow. The following is a list of 2022/2023 meeting dates:
o Meeting 1: October 5, 2022
o Meeting 2: November 2, 2022
o Meeting 3: December 7, 2022
NO JAN MTG
o Meeting 4: February 1, 2023
o Meeting 5: March 1, 2023
o Meeting 6: April 5, 2023
o Meeting 7: May 3, 2023








            Upcoming Events
          Heading link



 
Copy link







  More Upcoming Events









            Graduate Student Council - Quick Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Travel Award
                    

                Find info on GSC Travel Awards.
            












                            Project Award
                    

                Apply for funding on your project for UIC.
            












                            GSC General Meeting Discussions
                    

                Read up on past meeting discussions.
            












                            Upcoming Events
                    

                Check out the calendar for upcoming events.
            












                            GSC Members
                    

                Find info on GSC officers, Department Reps, and Exec Committee members.
            












                            Resources
                    

                Read up on useful information for graduate students.
            












                            Exec Committee Application
                    

                Join our executive committee!
            












                            Gallery
                    

                Peruse through pictures and flyers from past events.
            












                            Contact Us
                    

                GSC is motivated to help fellow graduate students! Let us know how we can help!
            






















UIC Logo






                Student Organizations
                



              This website is produced and managed by an official UIC student organization. The content of this site is not produced, edited, or endorsed by the university and it does not reflect the opinions of UIC administration.
            




Graduate Student Council
Contact
 Student Center East, Room 380K, 750 S. Halsted St. - MC 330 Chicago, IL 60607
GSC-OFFICERS@listserv.uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram

















UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













