 












                            Family Resources | Orientation | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Orientation

Main Menu




        New Student Orientation
      




        Resources
      


Expand Resources menu











                  Student Life Guide
                




                  Family Resources
                




                  New Student Fee
                




                  Academic College Welcomes
                









        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Student Staff
                




                  Professional Staff
                








Eyebrow menu


Convocation


Weeks of Welcome


UIC Connection


Student Affairs


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Orientation
              






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Orientation


Resources


Family Resources






Family Resources
Welcome to the Flames Family
We recognize you want to stay well-informed on how to support your student throughout their first year (and beyond) at UIC. Below is information about how you can participate in your student's New Student Orientation process and some additional resources to keep you informed!






            Orientation Programming
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Online Orientation
Parents and family members of our new students can participate in the online orientation program by visiting https://preorientation.uic.edu and creating a guest account. This is the same online orientation that you student is required to complete prior to registering for their in-person orientation program. PLEASE NOTE: Students should NOT use this link to complete their orientation. Students should visit my.uic.edu and log in to access their online orientation program to receive proper credit.
In-Person Orientation
We also encourage parents and family members to attend your student’s in-person orientation program. Students MUST register parents and family members through the my.uic.edu portal (when they are registering for their in-person program). We cannot guarantee walk in guests will be accommodated, so please make sure your student registers you at least 7 days prior to their scheduled in-person orientation program. There is an additional fee for parents and family members to attend in-person orientation. This fee covers the materials, supplies, and other other resources to run the parent and family program. Students will be charged $50 per guest for each parent and family member registered for orientation. PLEASE NOTE: students will be charged the additional $50 for each parent or family member registered, regardless of whether the parent or family member attends the in-person orientation. This charge will appear on their student account as Orientation Adjustment Fee.






            Flames Family Hub
          Heading link



 
Copy link



UIC New Student and Family Programs is excited to provide the Flames Family Hub, a communications portal to enhance your parent/familyexperience and customize the information you receive. The goal of the Flames Family Hub is to ensure you receive the most relevant news items and special notices at just the right time in your student’s journey.
The Flames Family Hub is your one-stop shop for:

Access to important news, updates, and deadlines;
Personalized newsletters specific to you and your student;
Announcements via email;
Sharing of updates with your student and/or friends and family.

To create an account and set-up your profile, visit: https://uic.campusesp.com.
Once you create an account, you have the ability to personalize newsletters, from content to frequency. You can choose to receive the newsletter digest weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, or quarterly. The online portal also generates news and information specific to you and your student, all based on the personal interests (or communities) you select, like health & wellness, athletics, info for families of sophomores, etc.
We hope you will join the over 22,000 other parent and family members who have signed up for the Flames Family Hub! If you have any questions about the hub, contact us at famhelp@uic.edu.






            Additional Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Please check out our UIC Parent & Family Guide which provides additional details about how you can support your student.
Finally, if you’d like to stay on top of current campus events and/or connect with our office, you can join the New Student and Family Programs Facebook Group (facebook.com/groups/UICNSFP).
UIC New Student and Family Programs also maintains a parent and family email address for all of your questions and needs. Please reach out to us at famhelp@uic.edu if you need anything!








Resources


Back to main content









Student Life Guide 

Family Resources 

New Student Fee 

Academic College Welcomes 













 
University of Illinois Chicago













































Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















Contact
 New Student and Family Programs
Student Center East, Suite 251, 750 S Halsted St, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3271
orhelp@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














