












Reminder: Town halls after the wellness symposium | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







 




















Reminder: Town halls after the wellness symposium

				September 30, 2022			
Dear UIC community:
The University of Illinois System implemented the annual Student Mental Health Symposia in 2020. These symposia serve as “the start of an ongoing effort to address student mental health while emphasizing the role all members of the campus community can play in supporting a caring and nurturing environment that allows students to thrive and reach their full potential.”
As the inaugural assistant vice chancellor for student health and wellness and executive director of the UIC Counseling Center, I am excited to host two town halls following this year’s Mental Health Symposium Keynote, Stacey Pearson-Wharton, PhD. As the new AVC for Student Health and Wellness, I am leading the integration of the counseling center, the wellness center, and the campus recreation center, while working with UIC faculty, staff and students to enhance student health and well-being through a community-oriented and public health grounded approach. Each of the town halls will be an opportunity for you to learn more about a vision for a health-promoting campus community at UIC and for you to share your ideas and suggestions about how we can collectively co-create a health-promoting campus environment in which all UIC students can thrive.
There are two opportunities to participate in a town hall, and livestreaming will be available:

Oct. 3, 5:30-6:30 p.m., Student Center East, Illinois Room, third floor.

Oct. 3 Livestream


Oct. 4, 5:30-6:30 p.m., Student Center West, Thompson Room, second floor.

Oct. 4 Livestream



RSVP
Sincerely,
Raphael Florestal-Kevelier
Assistant Vice Chancellor for Student Health and Wellness
Executive Director of the UIC Counseling Center
For more information, please contact:
UIC Office of the Dean of Students
wellbeing@uic.edu



Contact

UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu



Categories

Official Communications, Top Faculty Staff News, Top Student News, VC Student Affairs officials 





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













