 












                            Office of Preparedness and Response | University of Illinois Chicago
                    

























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of Preparedness and Response

Main Menu




        GUIDELINES
      


Expand GUIDELINES menu











                  Natural Hazards
                




                  Physical Threats
                




                  Evacuation Procedures
                




                  Medical Emergency/Illness or Injury
                




                  Hazardous Material Incident/Suspicious Odor
                




                  Facilities/Operations
                









        PLANNING
      


Expand PLANNING menu











                  Emergency Management
                




                  Violence Prevention
                




                  Clery Act
                




                  Continuity of Operations
                




                  Threat/Hazard Mitigation
                




                  Training & Exercising
                









        TOOLKIT
      


Expand TOOLKIT menu











                  UIC SAFE App
                




                  Digital 1-Pagers
                




                  Educational Products
                




                  Educational Videos
                




                  Safety tools and tips
                




                  Get Help
                




                  Be a “Prepper”
                









        REPORTING
      


Expand REPORTING menu











                  Report an Emergency
                




                  Clery Reporting
                




                  Anonymous Report
                









        PARTNER WITH US
      




        ABOUT
      


Expand ABOUT menu











                  Mission and Vision
                




                  Our Team
                








Eyebrow menu


Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administrative Services


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of Preparedness and Response
              









We prepare for the worst so you can live & learn @ your best










Edit icon







CSA Incident Reporting






User icon






Anonymous Incident Reporting






Map pin icon






Travel & Geography Reporting






People Icon


 
Partner with us
























            Annual Security and Fire Safety Report 2022
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The 2021-2022 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report (ASFSR) highlights the many safety and security procedures, programs, and services available at UIC and our regional health and sciences campuses. The report offers so much more than crime statistics- it’s a tool for you to discover how you can contribute to campus safety, the programs and resources at your disposal, and it offers a peek at the many working elements that come together to make UIC a safer and more resilient university.
Discover how we all play a role in this effort through exploring the 2021-2022 ASFSR!
Learn more about the Clery Act
Be Aware and Prepared with the UIC Active Threat Preparedness Toolkit


      View the Annual Report
    















            Are you #UICReady? Surviving an Active Threat Event
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The Aware and Prepared campaign is committed to putting U first and designed to educate and empower our community to prepare for, respond to, and mitigate emergencies.
This page offers a selection of active threat preparedness and responses products, tools, and resources, including our new training video to instruct our students and employees on the “Evacuate, Evade or Engage” protocol.
Finding yourself in such a situation can cause extreme panic and disorientation. But if you know what to do ahead of time, your chances of surviving this type of emergency situation are greatly increased.
A prepared UIC is a resilient UIC!


      Prepare Now. Learn How
    









            Videos
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Check out the Work Alone feature in action
                    












                            5 things you need to know about UIC SAFE
                    












                            Take advantage of your virtual buddy system!
                    











            Planning
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Emergency Management
                    

                Preparing for emergencies to protect the campus community before, during, and after a disaster.
            












                            Violence Prevention
                    

                The identification, assessment, and management of aberrant, dangerous, or threatening behavior.
            












                            Clery Act
                    

                Compliance with this federal campus safety and security law is a campus-wide effort.
            












                            Continuity of Operations
                    

                Roadmaps for getting essential units and services back up and running, based on priority.
            












                            Threat/Hazard Mitigation
                    

                Understanding the threats, vulnerabilities & consequences distinct to our community to best address mitigation/reduction
            












                            Training & Exercising
                    

                Training is based on established plans or standards.  Exercises are designed to validate the content of that training.
            










Join the
#UICReady listserv






Access
Continuity Planning Tool







            Safety Tools Available on Campus
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Emergency Mass Notification
                    

                You've heard about the UIC ALERT. Now, learn what it is and how you can receive it in your phone
            












                            Transit and Transportation Services
                    

                Know your options for safety commutes around campus and check out the services coverage area
            












                            UIC SAFE App
                    

                Personal Safety 101 at UIC: Download the UIC SAFE App today! Explore the tools, resources and features on this new SOS in your pocket
            











            Safety Toolbox
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            Register Emergency Contact [Employee] ?'
                    

                Log in with NetID & common password / Scroll to "Emergency Contacts" / Click "Edit" or "Add".
            









                            Register Emergency Contact [Student]
                    

                Log in with NetID & common password / Go to "Student Services" /  Click "Personal Info” / Go to "Address & Phones".
            









                            Register a Missing Student Contact
                    

                Log in with NetID & common password / Go to "Student Services" / Click "Personal Info / "Click "Update & Insert Eme
            









                            Register a Mental Health Emergency Contact
                    

                Log in with NetID & common password / Go to "Student Services” / Click "Personal Info." / Click "Update & Insert Emerge
            









                            Submit an Emergency Fund Application
                    

                Temporary, short-term financial assistance to currently enrolled students who are unable to meet essential expenses
            









                            Enroll in Travel Safety Roster
                    









                            Connect with a Veterans Crisis Responder
                    









                            Safety tools available on campus
                    









                            Safety Tips
                    










Update your
Emergency Contact Information








            ACTIVE THREAT/SHOOTER
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Sign up for the UIC ALERT!
Receiving timely information about severe weather conditions or other emergency events affecting the university can make all the difference in knowing when to take immediate action to remain safe.
Sign up today!








¡Escucha nuestro nuevo y divertido proyecto de audio experimental! Estas pequeñas cápsulas de audio están dirigidas a personas que hablamos español y presentan contenido sobre salud, seguridad y prevención en una forma en la que probablemente no lo habías escuchado antes.
¡Escucha aquí y diviértete!
Check out our new fun and experimental audio project! The short audio capsules are addressed to Spanish speakers and they present health, safety and preparedness content in a way that you have probably not heard before.
Listen here and have fun! Don’t know Spanish? Find the translated transcripts








Zero Dark Ready Blog
Emergency planning commentary – publishing actionable information and resources about disasters, pandemics, active threat, and more. Topics range from new active shooter and violence prevention programs in schools, the latest cybersecurity practices changing how we operate, 3 ways to create a more equitable and inclusive emergency management, and much more.
Blog posts








Emergency Management as a Career
As part of our campaign for National Preparedness Month 2021, we engaged subject-matter experts in the field of emergency management to have them weigh in on a few key areas. Our goal is to support increased visibility of EM as a profession (#MakeEMMoreVisible), not only for those who may be studying it at UIC, but also for those who may be considering entering the field.
Check out the interviews!











            OPR leaders in Preparedness
          Heading link



 
Copy link








NACCOP 2019 
UIC was awarded the Clery Compliance Program of the Year award by the National Association of Clery Compliance Officers and Professionals for its campus safety programs.







GDUSA 2021 
The 2020 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report was awarded GDUSA’s (Graphic Design USA) American Inhouse Design Awards in 2021.












            OPR leaders in Preparedness
          Heading link



 
Copy link








A'DESIGN 2021 
The 2020 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report won the Bronze A’DESIGN Award in Print and Published Media by the International Design Academy in 2021.







ADOBE 2021 
The 2020 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report landed the FINALIST category in the Adobe Creativity Government Awards 2021.












            #UICReady
          Heading link



 
Copy link





What can UIC Ready do for me?

Find out all that UIC Ready has to offer- partner with us! ready@uic.edu



I want graphics and safety resources for my department. Can you help?

Let’s find customized solutions for your unit, college or department! Contact Adriana Solis Martinez at asolis2@uic.edu



How do I include violence prevention efforts in my unit?

We’re here to support your students and staff! For training and resources on campus violence prevention and Clery reporting, contact Nicole Sammartino at nsamma2@uic.edu



















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Campus Planning


Emergency Operations Plan


Violence Prevention Plan


Clery Compliance


Continuity of Operations


Threat and Hazards Identification Risk Assessment


Hazard Mitigation Plan


Multi-Year Training and Exercise Plan (MYTEP)




Emergency Response Guidelines


Active Threat/Shooter


Building Evacuation


Extreme Heat


Fire (candles, cooking, smoking)


Shelter-in-Place








Social Media Accounts





Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 Office of Preparedness and Response
1140 S. Paulina St. Suite 109
ready@uic.edu

 









UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate















