












Accepting nominations for the 2022 Inventor of the Year | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







 




















Accepting nominations for the 2022 Inventor of the Year

				November 1, 2022			
The UIC Inventor of the Year Award
The Inventor of the Year Award honors an outstanding inventor or team of inventors at the University of Illinois Chicago who have made a contribution to the development of intellectual property that significantly impacts their field and society. The award is given based on the criteria of creativity, novelty and the commercial benefit to society.
Submission instructions
Nomination material should include a completed nomination award application and a statement explaining why the nominee should be considered for the UIC Inventor of the Year Award. You may include, but are not limited to, a brief background of the inventor, a description of the invention, status of the intellectual property and licensing, and the impact and value the invention has made to the field and society.
Nomination process and criteria
The awards are open to any UIC faculty member who has engaged with the UIC OTM through the invention disclosure process. The nominee must be a primary inventor or creator of a UIC technology disclosure for which a significant research effort conducted at UIC contributed to the advancement of knowledge in the field.
Nominations may be submitted by anyone from the UIC community who is knowledgeable about a successful UIC Inventor. Self-nominations are also encouraged.
Application deadline: Friday, Nov. 18, 5 p.m.
Apply online.
For more information, please contact:
Tamira Davis
tdavis17@otm.uic.edu



Contact

UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu



Categories

Announcements, Campus, Faculty, Info, Top Faculty Staff News 





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













