












Tolerance and nondiscrimination on campus  | UIC Today














































































            	Updated: Nov 23, 2022 at 05:18 PM
            




UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  







Submit







Campus News

Official Communications
UIC in the news


Academics & Research
Events
Resources

Current Student Resources
Faculty and Staff Resources
Online Learning Resources and Support
Photography/Video
Social Media Account Request Form
UIC Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices


COVID-19

Communications
Frequently Asked Questions
Saliva Testing and Contact Tracing
Isolation and exposure guidelines


Contact

Communicating On Campus
Sending Announcements / DDDH
UIC Social Media Directory







 




















Tolerance and nondiscrimination on campus 

				November 10, 2022			
Dear students, faculty and staff, 
All too frequently we are reminded that discrimination and intolerance continue to be a problem in our city, our country and around the world. Our goal is to provide a safe living, learning and teaching environment for all to ensure that everyone reaches their full potential.  
You are part of one of the most diverse college campuses in the nation, with more than 50,000 students and staff, where everyone should feel welcomed, valued and supported. You are also part of the solution as we strive for a more equitable and inclusive society. 
At UIC, discrimination or harassment against any person because of race, color, religion, sex, pregnancy, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, disability, or sexual orientation, including gender identity, in accordance with the Nondiscrimination Statement, is antithetical to our values and will not be tolerated. Below are resources provided through UIC’s Office for Access and Equity if you experience any form of discrimination or harassment on campus: 

Learn more about reporting discrimination and harassment. 
Learn more about the Bias Reporting Tool. 
View the UIC Campus Grievance Procedures. 

Additional resources: 

UIC’s Nondiscrimination Statement.
UIC’s Prohibition of Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment and Other Sexual Misconduct Policy. 
The Office of Diversity, Equity and Engagement provides diversity education workshops, trainings and surveys to address implicit bias.  
The Employee Accommodation Policy supports employees with accommodation requests. 
The Disability Resource Center supports students with accommodation requests. 

Prioritizing diversity, equity and inclusion are essential to foster excellence in our research, teaching, health care and service missions. Our differences, as well as our commonalities, should be celebrated. They make UIC stronger and better positioned to serve the needs of our students and community. 
The Office of Diversity, Equity and Engagement will host “A Conversation: Advancing Racial Equity” Dec. 1, 1:30-2:30 p.m., at Student Center East in meeting room 302 and virtually, to support students, faculty and staff who want to learn more about our advancing racial equity work and to continue the anti-racism campus conversation. Please RSVP and submit questions online in advance.
Javier Reyes
Interim Chancellor 
Karen Colley
Acting Provost 
Robert Barish, MD, MBA
Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs



Contact

UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu



Categories

Chancellor officials, Official Communications 





 








UIC Logo







        	  Today
      		  




UIC Today Contact
Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications
		601 S. Morgan St., 1320 UH, Chicago, IL 60607
uictoday@uic.edu

Social Media Accounts













For the Media
Experts Guide
Submit Announcements
Submit an Event
Subscribe to UIC Today
UIC in the news
 







UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UI Health
Veterans Affairs










Cookie Settings








  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













