 












                            Social Justice Initiative | University of Illinois Chicago
                    
























































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Social Justice Initiative

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Staff Profiles
                




                  Advisory Council
                




                  Partners
                




                  SERJ
                









        Programs
      


Expand Programs menu











                  Pipeline to Justice
                




                  Social Justice Minor
                




                  SJI Film Series
                









        Portal Project
      


Expand Portal Project menu











                  Participants
                




                  Maroon University
                




                  Abolition Documentary
                




                  Podcast
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  Event Videos
                




                  Past Events
                




                  Event Images
                









        News
      




        Justice Gallery
      


Expand Justice Gallery menu











                  Current Exhibition
                




                  Past Exhibitions
                




                  CJG News and Events
                




                  Gallery Requests
                









        Donate
      



Eyebrow menu


Office of the Provost


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Social Justice Initiative
              



























                    Join Us!
                  
















                    Have you seen Visions Beyond Prisons?
                  
















                    View Belonging Exhibition Photos
                  
















                    Watch Now: Access the Event Video
                  
















                    Learn About the New Cohort
                  

















                  Pause or play the slideshow
                





                  Show the next item
                














                  Show the next item
                















                    Show slide number 1
                  





                    Show slide number 2
                  





                    Show slide number 3
                  





                    Show slide number 4
                  





                    Show slide number 5
                  















Calendar icon






Attend an Event






Document icon









Subscribe






People Icon


 
Visit the Gallery






Envelope icon







Donate



















            Upcoming Events
          Heading link



 
Copy link







  More events










            SJI News
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            Social Justice Portal Project Releases Short Documentary and New Song on Abolition
                    

                Tuesday, March 1, 2022
            

                The Social Justice Initiative Portal Project is excited to announce the release of Abolition, a short documentary and new song by artist Taína Asili, capturing the spirit of the growing movement for prison…
            












                            UIC scholar receives lifetime achievement award
                    

                Thursday, February 24, 2022
            

                University of Illinois Chicago historian Barbara Ransby has been named a recipient of the Caribbean Philosophical Association’s Frantz Fanon Lifetime Achievement Award. Ransby, a professor of Black studies, history, and gender and women’s studies;…
            












                            In Memory of Janet Smith
                    

                Thursday, February 10, 2022
            

                The Social Justice Initiative community is mourning the loss of our colleague, collaborator, and friend Janet Smith, who died January 17th after a long battle with cancer.
            


















            A movement-oriented Think Tank
          Heading link



 
Copy link



In 2020–2021, the U.S. and the world experienced multiple crises and confrontations that have forced us to interrogate basic assumptions and answer difficult questions about who we are as a nation, and where we are headed. This March we announcing the launch of the Social Justice Portal Project. Sign up to receive updates and information on upcoming events, programs, and resources.


      Sign Up For Updates
    










            Social Justice Programs
          Heading link



 
Copy link









            Social Justice Film Series
          
Chicago Social Justice Lens Film Series Is an annual public film and discussion series focused on national and local social justice issues. The 2018 film series was Debt, Economic Justice and Racial Divides






            Pipeline 2 Justice
          
The Pipeline to Justice (P2J) scholarship and mentoring program is designed to support community organizers and activists in completing undergraduate degrees at UIC. Since 2012 the P2J program has been an academic conduit for diverse students with non-traditional backgrounds who have a track record of community organizing and commitments to social justice.






            Social Justice Minor
          
The Social Justice Minor is an interdisciplinary program housed in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and the Gender and Women’s Studies Program.  Students critically explore injustices as well as social movements working to effect positive change within the United States and throughout the world.






            Border Crossing Scholarship
          
The Nesbitt, Carrasco, Unzueta Scholarship in Border Crossing Activism is an award program of the Social Justice Initiative that honors a UIC undergraduate student whose scholarship and community engagement demonstrate a commitment to social justice activism across national boundaries and identities.






            Chicago Justice Gallery
          
The Chicago Justice Gallery is a unique space where UIC students, staff and faculty along with members of the Chicago community attend social justice focused art exhibitions, documentary films, performances, discussions, and community events.










            Follow Us!
          Heading link



 
Copy link





Follow Us!





Follow Us!



















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 1253 South Halsted, Suite 310, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312)-355-5922
Fax: (312) 355-1002
sjichicago@uic.edu

 




Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter























UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












