 












                            Office of Global Engagement | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Office of Global Engagement

Main Menu




        About
      


Expand About menu











                  Leadership
                




                  OGE Staff Directory
                




                  Diplomat in Residence
                




                  Donate/Giving
                




                  News
                









        Offices & Programs
      




        Faculty Resources
      




        Student Resources
      


Expand Student Resources menu











                  Prospective Students
                




                  Current Students
                









        Contact
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Office of Global Engagement
              









स्वागत है Bienvenido 환영합니다 Welcome اهلا و سهل 欢迎 Benvenuti
















Donate/Give to UIC






Flag icon







COVID Policies & Procedures






People Icon


 
Apply to UIC







        Earth icon
    




 
UIC International Enrollment Trends



















            Intro text
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) strives to “serve the citizens of Chicago and the world by being an international leader in research, scholarship, and innovation, and by creating a globally connected campus community which supports faculty, staff, and students as they address the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century.”
UIC is Chicago’s largest university and its only public Research I university. The university welcomes more than 6,000 international students and scholars to our campus each year and each year sends more than 300 students to study or research abroad. UIC also houses a number of internationally recognized and globally engaged research centers in urban studies, architecture, public health, social work, medicine, and engineering.
UIC is located in the heart of Chicago, an architecturally and culturally dynamic city of nearly three million people and home to Fortune 500 companies such as Boeing, United Airlines, and Caterpillar. Fifty-four million people visit Chicago each year to enjoy rich and diverse history, arts, culture, architecture, sports and outdoor activities.







            OGE affiliated offices
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            International Affairs
                    

                Oversees UIC’s international agreements, relations, visitors, delegations, and the Diplomat in Residence program.
            












                            Office of International Services
                    

                Provides an array of essential services and programs to assist international students, faculty, and scholars.
            












                            Programs for Int'l Partnerships
                    

                Promotes international collaboration by offering academic programs and customized training for international partners.
            












                            Study Abroad Office
                    

                Offers 175  programs in over 40 countries for students to earn credit toward graduation.
            












                            Tutorium in Intensive English
                    

                The Tutorium’s Intensive English Program is an academic English program for all student levels that issues Form I-20s.
            












                            UIC Global Partnership
                    

                Helps international students achieve their educational and career goals. See if UIC Global's programs for undergraduates or graduate students are right for you.
            











            Important Links
          Heading link



 
Copy link









                            International Travel Safety
                    









                            International Advisory Council
                    









                            International Collaborations
                    









                            Hosting International Visitors
                    









                            "How Do I...?" Questions
                    









                            Funding Opportunities
                    









                            Fulbright Programs
                    









                            International Centers, Institutes and Programs
                    









                            Information for OGE Faculty and Staff
                    

















            RFP: UI System/UNAM Joint Research Partnership Program
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The University of Illinois System and the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM) have established a joint seed research grants program for one year, starting with the academic year 2022-23. This program will fund projects in three thematic areas: Food and Health; Water; Energy. The overarching goal is to contribute towards solving problems related to Poverty, the Environment, and Sustainable well-being. Transdisciplinary approaches will be particularly welcome. Deadline for proposals is December 15, 2022.


      Read more
    










            Global Engagement News
          Heading link



 
Copy link












                            UIC and SPA Delhi Join Hands to Promote Better City Design Worldwide
                    

                Tuesday, October 18, 2022
            

                India’s leading School of Planning and Architecture Delhi and UIC sign Memorandum of Agreement to advance joint research and scholarly collaborations.
            












                            UIC named 2022 HSI leader by Fulbright Program
                    

                Sunday, October 16, 2022
            

                UIC named a Fulbright Hispanic-Serving Institution Leader for second year in a row by the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.
            












                            Update to International Travel Safety Policy
                    

                Tuesday, October 11, 2022
            

                The UIC Office of Global Engagement has updated the International Travel Safety Policy, effective immediately.
            







  More Global Engagement News















            Kathryn Engel decorated Chevalier dans l’Odre des Palmes Académiques
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Kathryn Engel, senior lecturer of psychology and director of internships in the applied psychology program at UIC, was decorated with the Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Palmes Académiques on Monday, October 24, 2022, at a special ceremony hosted by Yannick Tagand, Consul General of France in Chicago. The Ordre des Palmes Académiques (Order of Academic Palms) is an order of knighthood bestowed by the government of France for academics and cultural and educational figures.
In July, Engel was selected to be a member of Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot’s international delegation of city officials and local leaders.


      Read more
    








Ask a Question
About UIC's Global Engagement
















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Other Resources


Center for Global Health


Global Women's Health Fellowship


Language and Culture Learning Center


The African American Cultural Center


The Arab American Cultural Center


The Asian American Resource and Cultural Center


The Latino Cultural Center




Helpful Links


UIC Campus Map


UIC Academic Calendar


Ask UIC


UIC Today


UIC Events


U.S. Department of State (International Travel)


Chicago Sister Cities International


Chicago Office of New Americans


Choose Chicago




For OGE Faculty & Staff


OGE Intranet


OGE Outstanding Faculty & Staff Award


OGE Professional Development Grant








Social Media Accounts





Facebook












Twitter


















Instagram















Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 2730 UH Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 413-2799
oge@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield





Google Translate













