 












                            Summer Research Opportunities Program for Undergraduates | Graduate College | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Graduate College

Main Menu




        Admissions
      


Expand Admissions menu











                  Degree Admissions
                




                  Application Deadlines
                









        Funding & Awards
      


Expand Funding & Awards menu











                  Graduate Funding Overview
                




                  Fellowships & Awards
                




                  Other Funding
                









        Programs
      


Expand Programs menu











                  Graduate College Courses
                




                  Graduate Program in Neuroscience
                




                  Certificate in the Foundations of College Instruction
                









        Diversity
      


Expand Diversity menu











                  Recruitment
                




                  Fellows Mentoring & Support
                




                  DFI Program
                




                  (PIF) Program
                




                  PBRC-PREP Program
                




                  SROP Undergraduate Program
                









        Academics
      


Expand Academics menu











                  Dates & Events
                




                  Registration Info
                




                  Thesis
                




                  Exams & Defense
                




                  Policies & Procedures
                




                  Teaching Assistants
                




                  Graduation Info
                




                  Student Forms
                




                  Student Resources
                









        About Us
      


Expand About Us menu











                  Staff Directory
                




                  Faculty Listings
                




                  Newsletters
                




                  Contact Us
                








Eyebrow menu


Faculty & Staff Resources


Alumni


+Give


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Graduate College
              
Graduate College 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Graduate College


Diversity Matters


Summer Research Opportunities Program for Undergraduates






Summer Research Opportunities Program for Undergraduates






            SROP - Intro
          Heading link



 
Copy link






The Summer Research Opportunities Program (SROP) was first established in 1986 by the Graduate Deans of the Committee on Institutional Cooperation (CIC). The goal of SROP is to introduce domestic underrepresented sophomores and juniors to academic research experiences. Student participants work one-on-one with a faculty mentor giving them an opportunity to experience research and the graduate student experience. The University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) launched its SROP in 1986, with a total of six minority undergraduate students.
As UIC approaches 35 years of hosting this program, SROP has over one thousand student participants. The success of SROP has been truly phenomenal. The retention, graduation, and post-baccalaureate rates of SROP students are substantially higher than those of the general student population. More than two-thirds of the SROP alumni have gone on to graduate and professional schools, which is four times the national average for all baccalaureates in the U.S.
UIC’s numbers are equally impressive. At last count, 97% of those students who participated in its program have continued their studies or have earned a BA/BS degree, 47% are working toward or have completed a graduate degree, and 21.2% are working toward or have completed a professional degree. Our diverse student body, Research Extensive standing and location in the heart of downtown Chicago provide for an exceptional summer research experience.
In the Fall semester, the Graduate College invites undergraduates to apply for participation in SROP. The student may apply to the program already having a research project in mind and a committed faculty mentor or simply by having a research area of interest. In cases where a student has an experienced interest but no mentor, the SROP staff will try to facilitate a match. The SROP Staff and faculty advisory committee are responsible for the selection process, the allocation of funding, and the evaluation of the program.






            SROP - Program Structure
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Program Structure
In addition to working one-on-one with a faculty member, scholars participate in the following programmatic components:

Campus-based educational enrichment activities designed to broaden the students’ view of graduate education and research;
Workshops that inform students about graduate admissions procedures, financial aid opportunities, and test-taking skills. Students also participate in training regarding the graduate application process.
Seminars conducted by faculty and graduate students that expose students to a wide range of fields of study and research instruction.
Informal social gatherings that provide a relaxed setting for students and faculty to exchange ideas and share experiences;
The Illinois Summer Research Symposium conference where scholars have the opportunity to introduce their research and meet with other students who are interested in academic careers. Sponsored by the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign.
University of Illinois at Chicago sponsored final symposium for the formal presentation of scholars’ research projects.

Please note:  Due to the 30-40 hour per week obligation to research activities, students who participate in SROP should view this program as a “full-time” experience. Holding additional internships, outside employment, or taking courses of any kind during SROP is strictly prohibited.






            Program Dates & Application
          Heading link



 
Copy link



What are the dates of the program?
The SROP is an eight week program that runs June 1, 2023 through July 28, 2023.
How do I apply to the program?
The application deadline is February 3, 2023. There is no application fee.
When can I apply to the program?
SROP Applications for Summer 2023 are now available. Please click the link below.




2023
SROP Online Application






            SROP - FAQ
          Heading link



 
Copy link



FAQ About SROP
Who is eligible to participate in SROP?
Traditionally sophomores and juniors from historically underrepresented ethnic minority groups who have a 3.75 (on a 5.0 scale) or  2.75 (on a 4.0 scale) or higher grade point average are invited to apply. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents.
What are the benefits of the program?
Students receive an award of up to $4,000 to work with talented faculty at a Research I institution with state-of-the-art facilities. That experience includes instruction in research development which prepares students for the demands of graduate study. They also learn how to apply for admissions and financial support for graduate school. In addition, SROP students are offered opportunities to present their research projects twice during the summer calendar.
What about housing/board and travel?
The program covers the cost of travel (up to $350) and housing for students who do not live in Chicago or the surrounding suburbs.






            Student Testimonials
          Heading link



 
Copy link


















            Student Testimonial - Danny
          Heading link



 
Copy link


















            Student Testimonial - Fahima
          Heading link



 
Copy link


















            Contacts
          Heading link



 
Copy link







    Allen
    
    Bryson  

    Director of Pre-Graduate Programs
  


Phone:


          (312) 413-2558
        



Email:


          ajbryson@uic.edu
        





      View Profile
    












Diversity


Back to main content









Recruitment 

Fellows Mentoring & Support 

DFI Program 

(PIF) Program 

PBRC-PREP Program 

SROP Undergraduate Program 


SROP Early Admissions Fellowship 















 





















Campus Resources


Academic Calendar


UIC Today


Event Calendar


UIC Maps


Visit & Directions


Clery Compliance


Nondiscrimination Policy


Title IX: Sexual Misconduct


Student Information Disclosures




Staff Resources


my UIC


UIC Outlook Online


GoogleApps@UIC


Site Login




Student Resources


Wellness Center


Writing Center


UIC Pop-Up Pantry








Social Media Accounts





Facebook













Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















Contact
 Graduate College
601 S. Morgan St., 604 UH, 192, Chicago, Illinois 60607-7106
Phone: (312) 413-2550
Fax: (312) 413-0185
gradcoll@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs





Cookie Settings







Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield














