 












                            Internships and Jobs | Computer Science | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Computer Science

Main Menu




        Undergraduate
      


Expand Undergraduate menu











                  Admissions
                




                  Accreditation
                




                  Advising
                




                  Courses
                




                  Majors
                




                  Minor
                




                  Internships and Jobs
                




                  Student Groups
                




                  Student Resources
                




                  Women in CS
                









        Graduate
      


Expand Graduate menu











                  Admitted Students
                




                  Admissions
                




                  Courses
                




                  MS Program
                




                  PhD Program
                




                  PhD Alumni List
                




                  Post-Graduation Outcomes
                




                  Student Resources
                









        Research
      


Expand Research menu











                  Research Areas
                




                  Labs
                




                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates
                









        Faculty and Staff
      


Expand Faculty and Staff menu











                  Department Head
                




                  Faculty
                




                  Emeritus Faculty
                




                  Adjunct Faculty
                




                  Postdocs
                




                  Staff
                




                  Faculty Resources
                




                  Open Positions
                









        News
      


Expand News menu











                  Our New Building
                




                  News Stories
                




                  Press Mentions
                









        Events
      


Expand Events menu











                  CS calendar
                




                  Lectures and Seminars
                




                  Student Opportunities
                








Eyebrow menu


Break Through Tech


Give


Alumni


UIC Engineering Home


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Computer Science
              
College of Engineering 






      View Menu
      
Down arrow icon











Breadcrumbs

Computer Science


Undergraduate


Internships and Jobs






Internships and Jobs






            Stay career-minded while in school
          Heading link



 
Copy link



This page is designed to help CS students focus on the events, listings, and resources that align with their chosen field. Undergraduates are encouraged to complete at least two internships before graduation—for skill development as well as a competitive edge in the full-time job search. The Engineering Career Center (ECC) is here to help you along the way! Visit us early (and often) to make the most of our resources and our dedicated staff.






            ECC events for CS students
          Heading link



 
Copy link








Calendar icon






See ECC event listings






Map pin icon






Find Chicago-area career events














            Build your career skills at hackathons
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Hackathons help you to develop your résumé, make connections with new people, and become a more interesting interviewee with great stories to tell. Visit our Student Opportunities page to learn about upcoming hackathons and other events that can improve your position as a candidate for internships and jobs.


      Go to student opportunities
    








            CS Job Search Resources
          Heading link



 
Copy link






            col1
          

CS-focused sites


AfterCollege (CS jobs)
Computer Jobs
Dice
I Crunch Data
Illinois Technology Association Talent Portal
IT Job Pro






            col2
          

Startup-focused

1871 Chicago
AngelList
Built In Chicago
VentureLoop





            col3
          

Chicago tech

37 Chicago software companies you should know
50 Chicago Startups to Watch in 2018
Best Companies to Work for in Chicago
Meet 15 of Chicago’s fastest-growing tech companies








Go to the
Engineering Career Center webpage






            What do CS alumni do after graduation?
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The mini-profiles below offer a few examples of the thousands of rewarding careers pursued by alumni of UIC’s undergraduate program in computer science.






            Jigar Patel, BS ’21
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Software development engineer
Amazon
How did your UIC CS major prepare you for your job? CS technical electives gave me the foundation I needed to solve real-world problems in industry. They improved my critical thinking and problem-solving skills. They also required us to collaborate with a team, which is an important skill in the working world.
What kind of work experience did you get as a student? As an intern at Amazon, I had the chance to work on pricing software that receives 13 billion requests per year.
Favorite CS course: CS 341 Programming Language Design and Implementation. I had the opportunity to learn multiple languages, databases, data modeling, transforming data, and creating visualization apps based on datasets.
Any advice for incoming UIC CS students? Choose a specialization. Become an expert in it and commit to it, whether it’s data science, artificial intelligence, machine learning, cloud computing, or something else. Gain lots of hands-on experience outside classes via your own projects, volunteerism, or internships. Attend tech conferences and join tech communities: student organizations, meetups, or hackathons. Be proactive toward your career and build a personal brand by talking to recruiters, attending career fairs, and consistently updating your portfolio.






            Anusha Pai, BS ’19
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Software engineer
Google
The UIC advantage: From professors to teaching assistants to the Engineering Career Center, UIC genuinely wants each student to succeed. Having a great support system was the first step. Second were the soft skills. In addition to technical skills, I learned how to manage time, prioritize between tasks, and collaborate on projects, all of which immensely helped me in the working world.
Is diversity important in computer science? Yes! We all have different ways of viewing the world, and we’re all unique in our own individual ways. By diversifying the tech world, we create more inclusive technologies for our community.
Words of advice for new CS students: Go for it! Computer science is a beautiful major that gives you the knowledge to create tools to help our community. It’s a wonderful balance between innovation and creativity. Technology is everywhere, so even if you don’t end up pursuing a career related to the major, the skills you learn are still very valuable to have. When starting off, start slow: ensure you completely understand the CS basics. This will help you build your toolkit smoothly from there. I believe in you. You got this!






            Kevin Bell, BS ’19
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Software Engineer
Discover
 What are some of your day-to-day tasks? Writing code, prepping for product installs, and learning about and implementing security tools. I’m a part of the Ninjitsu team at Discover, and I work on the web platform using Java.
What’s great about your job? The culture at Discover was the main factor that made me want to work here in the first place. Everyone is kind, professional, and understanding. Also, I’m learning a lot in a short amount of time, so it’s great for growth.
What was the most valuable student organization you joined, and why? Black Tech Scholars because it brought awareness to the fact that there are people like me who want to help people like me. Now, I have a strong feeling of needing to pay back that effort.
Would you recommend the College of Engineering to new applicants? If so, why? Yes. If you want a challenge to grow and to succeed in life, then UIC is the perfect place for you. There’s so much to learn, so many people to meet, and so many opportunities to come from the experience that it’s a no-brainer to recommend the College of Engineering.






            Emily Austin, BS ’16
          Heading link



 
Copy link






Program Manager
AstrumU
What are some of your day-to-day tasks? I talk with people to solve their problems and keep work moving forward. I sometimes get clarification from one person or need to gather a group to decide how we’ll tackle a problem. I balance priorities between developers, data scientists, product managers, and sales managers in planning workloads. I collaborate with others to define company road maps and goals in a language that crosses technical and non-technical teams. I maintain internal tools that help the engineering team move smoothly.
What was your favorite course? CS 450 Introduction to Networking. It has a lot of fun concepts and leaves you wondering how it all works. The course was tough, but I took it with friends, and we studied and struggled together. After the course, I learned that I don’t want to specialize in networking or work on it day-to-day, but I enjoy discussing concepts and seeing how networking relates to everything in technology.
What was the most valuable student organization you joined, and why? The Association for Computing Machinery. This is where I met friends when I first joined UIC. I found people with similar interests, peers in my classes to study with, and events where I could learn more about the technical field. In my third and fourth years, I was vice president and president, respectively. I learned more about leadership, interfaced with external companies and university staff, and got to welcome students to the organization who reminded me of myself when I joined UIC.
Fun fact about you that few people are aware of: I play Magic the Gathering limited format. I’ve been to Grand Prix in Seattle and Portland and played against the director of Magic R&D in a random matchup.








Undergraduate


Back to main content









Admissions 

Accreditation 

Advising 

Courses 

Majors 


Computer Science Major 

Computer Science + Design Major 

Data Science Major 



Minor 

Internships and Jobs 

Student Groups 

Student Resources 

Women in CS 













 

























Footer Menu


Undergraduate Resources


Graduate Resources


Faculty Resources


ABET Accreditation






Social Media Accounts






Linked In












Twitter


















Instagram















YouTube













Contact
 For CS student and faculty inquiries, contact:
851 S. Morgan St., 11th Floor SEO, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 996-3422
cs-info@uic.edu

 








UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












