 












                            Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions (GPPA) | University of Illinois Chicago
                    






















































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.









University of Illinois Chicago









































Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        

















University of Illinois Chicago











































Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions (GPPA)

Main Menu




        Programs Offered
      




        Prospective Students
      


Expand Prospective Students menu











                  Application Guide
                




                  Frequently Asked Questions
                




                  Next Steps
                









        Current Students
      


Expand Current Students menu











                  Frequently Asked Questions
                




                  Conditions of Acceptance
                









        Staff
      



Eyebrow menu


UIC menu


UIC.edu


Campus Map





Search




















                Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions (GPPA)
              


























            GUARANTEED PROFESSIONAL PROGRAM ADMISSIONS
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The GPPA initiative allows a limited number of first year students per year to be admitted to UIC with guaranteed admission to one of several graduate or professional degree programs. Students follow a specific curriculum and meet established performance criteria to maintain their admission guarantee.
With the security of GPPA, students are able to focus on undergraduate studies and have the freedom to pursue many subject areas and disciplines. In addition, participants have early and frequent contact with professional school faculty and advisors. Most students in GPPA also benefit from the facilities and services of the UIC Honors College.









            INFORMATION SESSIONS
          Heading link



 
Copy link



Honors College and GPPA Staff conduct information sessions on a regular basis. These sessions include an overall presentation on both the Honors College and GPPA, including the admissions process, program requirements, and resources. There is also time for students to ask individual questions.
Register at https://discover.uic.edu/.








            APPLICATIONS FOR FALL 2023 ADMISSION NOW OPEN!
          Heading link



 
Copy link



The Fall 2023 application opened on August 1, 2022.  The application is part of the overall UIC application on the Common Application. More details about the application process can be found via the Prospective Students tab.
Application Deadline is November 1, 2022.







APPLY TO GPPA NOW








            Frequently Asked Questions
          Heading link



 
Copy link



See the “Frequently Asked Questions” page to answer your general questions about GPPA. For specific questions about GPPA, please email gppauic@uic.edu.















 
University of Illinois Chicago











































Contact
 Phone: (312) 413-2263
gppauic@uic.edu

 



Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links

UIC.edu
Academic Calendar
Athletics
Campus Directory
Disability Resources
Emergency Information
Event Calendar
Job Openings
Library
Maps
UIC Safe Mobile App
UIC Today
UI Health
Veterans Affairs






Powered by Red 3.0.51

  © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
Privacy Statement


Campuses

University of Illinois System
Urbana-Champaign
Springfield












