


















Undergraduate | UIC Admissions































 




Explore UIC
Visit Virtually
Apply
 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Undergraduate




Academic Programs
Tuition and Financial Aid
Requirements & Deadlines
Application Process
Apply Now
FAQs




 





Home
You are here
 

Home
You are here
 




















Newly Admitted StudentsGet ready to be part of a diverse and academically talented community in one of the world's great cities. Review your next steps to enrollment. 
Visit the admitted student pagesRequest InformationWant to know more? Take a minute to complete the prospective student form. We'll keep in touch with important dates and programs that may interest you.
Request Information PageCounselorsHelping applicants navigate the admissions process? We have answers to the questions that stumped your student.
Counselor Information


Translations





Arabic



Chinese



Indonesian



Korean



Portuguese



Russian



Spanish



Thai



Turkish



Vietnamese

 







 






















 Learn & EnjoyFill your college experience with growth, learning and a lot of fun. Check out the Student Affairs website to learn how we can help make it happen.
 


 





 #9 Best Value UniversitiesTimes Higher Education and the Wall Street Journal have named UIC one of very best values in the U.S.—with particular strength in environment, engagement and outcomes. 
 


 

 




 





NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY OF THE UIC ANNUAL SECURITY AND FIRE SAFETY REPORT
The University of Illinois at Chicago is pleased to share the Annual Security & Fire Safety Report with all prospective students. The report contains information regarding campus security and personal safety including topics such as: crime prevention, public safety authority, crime reporting policies, fire safety, disciplinary procedures, and fire statistics in UIC residential facilities and crime statistics for the three previous calendar years.  The full text of this report is available online at ready.uic.edu. If you would like to receive a copy on paper, visit the Office of Preparedness & Response, located at 1140 South Paulina Street, Suite 109, Chicago, IL 60612.
















UnderGraduate




Graduate & Professional 



 










Office of Admissions
Main Office
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350Contact UIC Admissions
 
Visitors Center
1220 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 413-1726
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161 Contact Undergraduate Admissions 
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.Contact Graduate and Professional Admissions
 


 






 













Privacy Statement
Nondiscrimination Statement
Site Map
Accessibility
Site Home
UIC Home
Login
Webmaster
Copyright © 2022 The Board of Trustees of the University of IllinoisFacebook
Twitter
YouTube
Accessibility




 

T



CookieSettings






